source	title	link	content	len	score
abcnews	Landmark Supreme Court case weighs gender-affirming care for trans kids	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/landmark-supreme-court-case-weighs-gender-affirming-care/story?id=116232587	"The justices are considering Tennessee's ban on certain treatments for minors.
Medical treatments for transgender children, endorsed by major American medical associations and safely used for decades, hang in the balance at the U.S. Supreme Court on Wednesday as the Biden administration and three families withtransgender teenagersask the justices to strike down a state law banning some gender-affirming care for kids.
The landmark case -- U.S. v. Skrmetti -- comes from Tennessee, which is among 26 states that have moved to prohibit administration of puberty-blocking medication and hormone therapy to minors who seek to identify with, or live as, a gender identity inconsistent with his or her sex at birth.
Oral arguments, which began just after 10 a.m., mark the first time the nation's highest court has openly considered a state law targeting transgender people. It is also the first time an openly transgender litigator, ACLU attorney Chase Strangio, is arguing a case in the Supreme Court chamber.
The historic hearing thrusts the justices to the forefront of a cultural debate that has sharply divided the country and tested the limits of science and parental rights.
The outcome of the case could determine access to health care for hundreds of thousands of trans teens and more broadly influence how communities treat transgender people in hospitals, schools and on sports fields.
The government argues that Tennessee's SB1, which was enacted in March 2023, violates the Constitution's equal protection clause because it discriminates on the basis of sex to decide who can receive otherwise legal medical treatments available to youth.
""Put simply, an adolescent assigned female at birth cannot receive puberty blockers or testosterone to live as a male, but an adolescent assigned male at birth can,"" the administration wrote in its brief to the court.
The Tennessee law expressly allows minors who are not transgender to receive gender-affirming treatments to address a ""congenital defect, precocious puberty, disease, or physical injury.""
Denying discrimination, the state argues its law is a reasonable regulation of medical treatment based on its purpose, meant to protect children from potential long-term health risks and possible irreversible changes to the body.
The law's Republican sponsors claim that contradictory scientific evidence and documented regret among some young people who have transitioned both warrant caution in developing standards of care.
The law also cites a ""compelling interest in encouraging minors to appreciate their sex, particularly as they undergo puberty"" and preventing them from becoming ""disdainful of their sex."" The government says the text proves an intent to enforce gender conformity.
Hundreds of Tennessee transgender children were receiving treatments before SB1 was enacted, legislators concluded. It is not known how many suffered alleged harm.
The plaintiffs in the case include16-year-old LW and her parents Brian and Samantha Williamsof Nashville. After several years of successful hormone therapy, LW now has to travel out of state to continue treatments she says have dramatically improved her quality of life.
""I feel normal now,"" LW said in an exclusive interview with ABC News last month.
""Our state legislature had made such a big deal out of parents rights during COVID, about masks and vaccines -- that that's for parents to decide these medical decisions for their children,"" noted Samantha Williams. ""And then, they made this medical decision for our child.""
Nationwide, an estimated 300,000 Americans ages 13 to 17 identify as transgender,according tothe Williams Institute at UCLA School of Law. Of those, nearly 100,000 live in states that have banned access to gender-affirming medical treatments for minors.
""It's a case of enormous significance that presents fundamental questions about the scope of state power to regulate medical care for minors, of the rights of parents to make medical decisions for their childrenÿ and the level of scrutiny that courts should apply to laws that discriminate against transgender people in general,"" said Deepak Gutpa, a veteran Supreme Court litigator. ""This is a major, major constitutional civil rights issue.""
More than 60% of Americans say they oppose law banning certain types of gender-affirming medical treatment for minors, according toGallup.
Major American medical associationshave endorsedthe treatments for more than a decade as part of ""individually tailored interventions"" to support trans kids and affirm their sense of self. Not all transgender children seek medical care to facilitate transition to another sex.
""It needs to be part of a very deliberate process that involves medical specialists, who are expert at doing this, and, again, are following the science,"" said Dr. Ben Hoffman, a pediatrician and president of the American Academy of Pediatrics. ""It all begins and ends with science. This is not about any sort of agenda.""
Clinical practiceguidelinesfrom the American Endocrine Society, based on more than 260 research studies, recommend the use of puberty-delaying medications and waiting until a child reaches adulthood to consider gender-affirming surgery.
The American Academy of Pediatrics says the effects of puberty blockers are not permanent if treatment is discontinued. Many effects of hormone therapy can also be reversed. Long-term risks may include fertility challenges and possible harm to bone density, but the group says those risks require further study.
In contrast to the U.S. medical establishment, several European countries, including the United Kingdom, have reversed course on the use of gender-affirming treatments as a standard-of-care for transgender children, citing insufficient scientific evidence of long-term benefits.
""When you look at the totality of the medical research, to me there is more than enough uncertainty and evidence of bad outcomes for kids who've gone through these treatments when they reach the later stages in life,"" said Tennessee Senate GOP Leader Jack Johnson.
A federal district court sided with the plaintiffs, temporarily halting enforcement of SB1, but the Sixth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals reversed. The panel of judges concluded Tennessee had a rational basis for enacting the law.
""Kind of the whole ballgame in the case is the debate about whether there actually is discrimination on the basis of sex,"" said Erin Murphy, a Supreme Court litigator and former clerk to Chief Justice John Roberts.
""It's really not,"" Murphy argued. ""To say providing testosterone to a biological boy and biological girl is the same thing because testosterone is involved -- it's a different treatment that has different risks.""
David Cole, former legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union, which is representing the Williams family, says the court's conservative majority will have to confront the legacy of its decision.
""I think there's no question in 25 years that the court will have recognized that treating people differently because their gender identity is sex discrimination,"" Cole said.
""The question is whether the court wants to write a decision will be overturned, you know, in the course of the next 10 years or 15 years,"" he said, ""or whether it wants to recognize what is going on, which is sex discrimination.""
A decision in the case is expected by the end of June 2025.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	7441	-1
abcnews	Hegseth says he will not 'back down' as scrutiny grows over misconduct allegations	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/pete-hegseth-back-scrutiny-grows-misconduct-allegations/story?id=116444894	"GOP senators have voiced growing concern over Trump's pick to head the Pentagon.
Pete Hegseth, President-elect Donald Trump's pick for defense secretary, said on Wednesday he will not ""back down"" after new misconduct allegations have caused growing concern among Republican lawmakers.
""I'm doing this for the warfighters, not the warmongers. The Left is afraid of disrupters and change agents. They are afraid of @realDonaldTrump -- and me. So they smear w/ fake, anonymous sources& BS stories. They don't want truth. Our warriors never back down,& neither will I,"" Hegseth wrote on X.
His comments come as a number of senators have privately signaled that they are not inclined to vote to confirm Hegseth as Trump's next defense secretary, leading Trump's advisers to begin discussing who may be a viable replacement, sources familiar with the matter told ABC News.
Sources told ABC News that at least six senators have privately indicated that they don't intend to vote for Hegseth amid the growing allegations, including about his mistreatment of women.
Multiple sources also tell ABC News that Trump andFloridaGOP Gov. Ron DeSantis spoke about the job Tuesday and DeSantis expressed interest in it.
Hegseth is expected to be back on Capitol Hill Wednesday for meetings with more Republican senators.
His mother, Penelope Hegseth, offered a defense of her son on Fox News on Wednesday.
Hegseth's mother sent an email to her son in 2018 amid his divorce in which she wrote that he was an ""abuser of women."" The email wasreported by the New York Times. ABC News has not independently obtained the email.
Penelope Hegseth on Wednesday said her son was a ""changed"" man and that the email was written in ""haste"" during a ""very emotional time."" She said that she ""retracted it with an apology email"" just hours after she sent it, and that her and her son are ""very close today.""
She also noted the allegations against Hegseth were from several years ago and claimed ""most of it"" is ""misinformation"" -- while repeatedly stressing that her son is a now different man who has been ""redeemed"" and ""forgiven.""
""We really believe that he is not that man he was seven years ago. I'm not that mother, and I hope people will hear that story today and the truth of that story,"" she said.
The New Yorker, citing what it called a detailed seven-page whistleblower report, said Hegseth was forced to step down from two veteran nonprofit groups amid accusations of financial mismanagement, sexist behavior and other disqualifying conduct. ABC News has not independently confirmed the magazine's account.
Several Republican senators on Tuesday said they believed Hegseth needed to come forward and address the reports, which Sen. Lindsey Graham called ""disturbing."" But as he made his way through the Capitol to try to shore up support to lead the Defense Department, he ignored reporters' questions.
Penelope Hegseth said on Fox News that she believed her son was ""the man for the job.""
ABC News' Rick Klein and Rachel Scott contributed to this report.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3082	-1
abcnews	Trump's controversial Cabinet picks raise questions about lower ethical standards	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trumps-controversial-cabinet-picks-raise-questions-lower-ethical/story?id=116281355	"""Some candidates are just a bridge too far,"" one political scientist said.
President-elect Donald Trump has shown no qualms about making or sticking by picks for his Cabinet no matter the baggage they carry -- even some accused of sexual assault.
It's a far cry from the days when much smaller-scale scandals, such as marijuana use or hiring an undocumented worker as a nanny, sunk candidates put forward by Presidents Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton, experts said.
""We're in untested waters,"" Jonathan Hanson, a political scientist and lecturer in statistics at the University of Michigan's Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, told ABC News.
Hanson and other experts said the public has become less concerned about some indiscretions, such as minor and one-time drug and alcohol arrests. Ronald Reagan's Supreme Court nominee Judge Douglas Ginsburg admitting to smoking pot when he was younger would never have gotten much negative blowback today, Hanson said.
Two of Bill Clinton's picks for attorney general -- Zoe Baird and Kimba Wood -- both withdrew amid questions over their hiring immigrants in the country illegally as babysitters. Former Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle -- Clinton's choice for health and human services secretary -- had to bow out after it was revealed he didn't pay taxes for the use of a car and driver.
""It's true that people's standards have shifted, but the question is, when does it really cross a line?"" Hanson said.
Trump's picks bring the debate to a new level, he argued.
Trump himself campaigned in the shadow of his hush money felony criminal conviction and after a Manhattan civil jury found him liable for sexually abusing E. Jean Carroll. Trump has repeatedly denied the allegations in both cases.
Matt Gaetz was already a controversial figure before his nomination while under a House Ethics Committee investigation for alleged sexual abuse and illicit drug use.
The former Florida congressman has denied all the allegations and the investigations by the Justice Department ended with no charges being brought and the House Ethics Committee ended when Gaetz resigned from his seat.
Trump's pick to head the Pentagon, Pete Hegseth, paid a woman who alleged he had sexually assaulted her in 2017, an accusation he denied and for which he was not charged.
The New York Timespublished an emailFriday that Hegseth's mother, Penelope Hegseth, sent him in 2018 in the context of his divorce from his second wife, saying he had routinely mistreated women for years.
""I have no respect for any man that belittles, lies, cheats, sleeps around and uses women for his own power and ego,"" she wrote in the message, according to the Times.
She said she later apologized and told the paper that she sent the e-mail in anger, adding ""I know my son. He is a good father, husband.""
The New Yorkerreported Hegseth was allegedly forced to step down from two non-profits veterans' groups that he ran due to ""serious allegations of financial mismanagement, sexual impropriety, and personal misconduct."" The magazine cited ""a trail of documents, corroborated by the accounts of former colleagues.""
ABC News has not independently confirmed The New Yorker or The New York Times reporting.
Tim Parlatore, a lawyer for Hegseth, called the New Yorker piece, ""outlandish claims laundered ...by a petty and jealous disgruntled former associate,"" in a response to the magazine.
Jason Miller, a senior Trump adviser, told CNN on Tuesday that the allegations in The New Yorker about Hegseth are ""innuendo and gossip,"" and said the Trump transition has no concerns about his pick to lead the Department of Defense.
Hegseth has said the sex assault allegation from 2017 was ""fully investigated"" and that he was ""completely cleared"" although a police report did not say that. He has avoided talking about the allegations while he metwith Republican lawmakersover the last couple of weeks to garner support.
Hanson notes Trump named Gaetz and Hegseth after a majority of voters sent him back to the White House despite his own criminal indictments, including attempting to overturn the 2020 election. The sentencing for Trump's New York conviction has been postponed indefinitely while the federal cases have been dismissed.
That, along with the Republicans taking control of Congress, Hanson said, might have motivated Trump to push forward with his controversial picks.
""It does raise the question if we are holding people to different standards than we used to,"" he said. ""There has been this notion to shrug it all off, thinking, 'Everyone is corrupt. At least he's open about it.'""
Edward Queen, a faculty member at Emory University Center for Ethics, said this thinking has been linked to what he said is growing distrust in the American political system.
""One of the consequences of the decline of trust is that everyone has done 'it' therefore 'it' doesn't matter. And that's disturbing,"" he told ABC News.
At the same time, Hanson said, history shows the public traditionally has been against corruption, cronyism and other questionable behavior by public officials.
""There are voters in the middle who voted for Trump that would be unhappy for a vote for these troubling nominees,"" Hanson said. ""That will come back to hurt Republicans who may have ridden on his momentum.""
Jeff Spinner-Halev, the Kenan Eminent Professor of Political Ethics at the University of North Carolina, however, told ABC News that the general public has not kept up with the ins and outs of the confirmation process on Capitol Hill, and the outcry may not be that loud.
""It will have limited influence,"" he said of the public reaction. ""What will matter if a few senators are concerned about the controversies or competency of the candidate verses how much they care about the wrath of President Trump.""
The Senate must confirm each Cabinet choice, and while the GOP will have the majority, some Senate Republicans who back Trump also question whether his picks' ethical issues make them impossible to approve, according to Hanson.
""Putting my shoes in a senator's for a moment, they don't want to walk the plank for a vote,"" Hanson added. ""If they feel that a nominee is too unpopular, they don't want to stick their hand in the air and say 'yes' -- but if they do, he said, they would need to weigh the consequences of looking the other way.""
He sees the fact that some GOP senators signaled Gaetz wasn't acceptable as proof some standards still exist. For example, Gaetz withdrew his name from the nomination eight days after Trump announced it due to the increased scrutiny and more details about his scandals came to light.
Gaetz said in a social media post that his nomination process would have been ""a distraction.""
""No one was really looking to defend this guy, and the message got sent to the president-elect's team that this isn't going to work,"" Hanson said.
""I do think it is a positive sign because, at some point, lines were crossed. Some candidates are just a bridge too far, and it may be the case with some of the other appointees,"" he added.
Steven Cheung, Trump's choice for White House communications director and campaign spokesman, reiterated his claim that ""voters gave President Trump a mandate to choose Cabinet nominees that reflect the will of the American people and he will continue to do so.""
""President Trump appreciates the advice and consent of Senators on Capitol Hill, but ultimately this is his administration,"" he said in a statement after Gaetz withdrew.
Hanson predicted there will continue to be increased scrutiny of Trump's Cabinet picks as Senate confirmation hearings get closer, but he warned that the opposition might have limits.
""It depends on how much fight will come from Democrats and interest groups that engage with politics. It will be interesting to see what happens because there is plenty of opportunity here for Democrats in the Senate to make a lot of noise,"" he said.
""We will also be in a situation where there may be only enough clout and power to fight only the most controversial of nominees and let others pass,"" he said.
Spinner-Halev said that Republican senators, in particular, may not want to cross Trump too many times and may just limit their opposition to his picks with the most baggage.
""One of the worries the Republicans will have is if a person [who is nominated] is incompetent,"" he said. ""The danger for the Trump administration and Republicans general is if these people are incompetent and mess up and then the public notices. This is what happened with George W. Bush and [Hurricane] Katrina where he said [FEMA Director Michael Brown] was doing a 'heck of a job.' That hurt him badly.""
Queen said there is a possibility that some Republican senators may put ethics before partisanship when all is said and done.
""It's not unreasonable to assume that there are a number of senators who realize there will be consequences of their choices and their decisions that it will be bad for the country as a whole,"" he said.
In the long term, Hanson said it is unclear if Trump's selections will usher in a new norm of presidential picks who buck ethics and experience standards.
He noted that American history has shown several cycles of reform brought on by demand of a public frustrated with dysfunction and improper behavior, such as in the aftermath of the Nixon administration in the 1970s.
""Now that they see what is happening, they may be reminded what the Trump presidency was like the first time around,"" he said of Americans who supported him. ""There may be a bunch of people who say this is not what I voted for, and that could affect things tremendously.""
Spinner-Halev said the future will depend on how informed the public is over the next four years.
""There is a lot that happens in Washington that's not in the public eye, and I think it's important that the public keeps an eye on the bureaucratic ongoings,"" he said.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	9957	-1
abcnews	"Ron DeSantis, Joni Ernst potential defense secretary nominees if Hegseth drops out"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/ron-desantis-joni-ernst-potential-trump-defense-secretary/story?id=116436870	"Trump's advisers have said the president-elect still backs Pete Hegseth.
A growing number of senators have privately signaled that they are not inclined to vote to confirm Pete Hegseth as President-elect Donald Trump's next defense secretary, leading Trump's advisers to begin discussing who may be a viable replacement, sources familiar with the matter told ABC News.
Sources tell ABC News that at least six senators have privately indicated that they don't intend to vote for Hegseth amid the growing allegations about his mistreatment of women.
While Trump and his advisers have privately said the president-elect backs Hegseth and wants him to ""keep fighting,"" sources familiar with private discussions tell ABC News that a growing list of replacements is emerging to replace him. Those include Iowa Sen. Joni Ernst, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, Tennessee Sen. Bill Hagerty and Florida Rep. Mike Waltz, whomTrump has already tapped to be national security adviser.
Sources close to DeSantis say he has expressed interest in the role. He was seen today with Trump attending a memorial service for three Palm Beach County sheriff's deputies in West Palm Beach, who werekilled in a crash last month.
Reached by ABC News, a spokesperson for the Trump transition team declined to comment.
Hegseth was back on Capitol Hill Tuesday looking to shore up support as he fends off the allegations of misconduct and sexual impropriety.
The visit came after a report inThe New Yorkerthat Hegseth was forced to step down from two veteran nonprofit groups -- Veterans for Freedom and Concerned Veterans for America -- amid accusations of financial mismanagement, sexist behavior and other disqualifying behavior.
ABC News has not independently confirmed the magazine's account. Hegseth's attorney, Tim Parlatore, told The New Yorker the claims were ""outlandish.""
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	1895	0
abcnews	"Kash Patel, Trump's pick to lead FBI, hit with Iranian cyberattack, sources say"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/kash-patel-trumps-pick-lead-fbi-hit-iranian/story?id=116436241	"President-elect Donald Trump nominated Patel late Saturday evening.
The FBI director nominee Kash Patel was hit with what is believed to be a cyberattack emanating from Iran on Tuesday, according to two sources familiar with the situation.
President-elect Donald Trump nominated his longtime ally Patel on Saturday after announcing he planned on firing FBI director Christopher Wray.
Patel has been a staunch supporter of Trump for years and served in his first administration in a number of roles.
""Kash Patel was a key part of the first Trump administration's efforts against the terrorist Iranian regime and will implement President Trump¡¦s policies to protect America from adversaries as the FBI Director,"" said Trump transition spokesman Alex Pfeiffer.
This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	863	0
abcnews	Trump's DEA selection Chad Chronister withdraws from consideration	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trumps-dea-selection-chad-chronister-withdraws-consideration/story?id=116431966	"The Florida sheriff faced pushback for enforcing COVID-19 lockdowns.
Chad Chronister announced Tuesday he was withdrawing his name from consideration to run the Drug Enforcement Agency, three days after President-electDonald Trumpmadeannounced he had selected the Hillsborough County, Florida, sheriff for the position.
Although Trump touted Chronister and said he would work to "" stop the flow of Fentanyl, and other Illegal Drugs,"" there was pushback against Chronister from conservatives for his enforcement of COVID-19 lockdowns during the pandemic.
Chronister said in apost on Xthat there was ""more work to be done for the citizens"" of his county.
""To have been nominated by President-Elect @realDonaldTrump to serve as Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration is the honor of a lifetime. Over the past several days, as the gravity of this very important responsibility set in, I¡¦ve concluded that I must respectfully withdraw from consideration,"" he said in his post.
Trump did not immediately comment.
The position requires Senate approval.
At one point during the pandemic, Chronister arrested a pastor who defied lockdown orders and held a service which was blasted by many prominent conservatives.
Several of the sheriff's opponents applauded his decision to withdraw from the position.
""Glad to see him withdraw from consideration. Next time politicians lose their ever-lovin minds, he can redeem himself by following the Constitution,"" Rep. Thomas Massie, R-Ky.,posted on Xon Tuesday.
ABC News' Katherine Faulders contributed to this report.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	1612	0
abcnews	Republican senators torn over FBI background checks for Trump Cabinet picks	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/gop-senators-seek-normal-process-confirm-trump-nominees/story?id=116406755	"Trump team enters agreement with DOJ to submit names for background checks.
As Republicans senators returned to Washington after Thanksgiving recess to a renewed peppering of questions about President-elect Donald Trump's Cabinet picks, a familiar refrain emerged: trust the confirmation process.
""That's why we're going to take the normal process, vet all the nominees, and give everybody a chance to ask those questions during a hearing,"" Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, said when asked aboutnew allegations concerning Pete Hegseth, Trump's choice for defense secretary.
""That is why our process is so important,"" Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, said when asked about thecontroversial reportssurrounding Hegseth.
""The president is allowed to have his appointees who we will have to see,"" Sen. Shelley Moore Capito, R-W.Va., said when asked about Kash Patel, Trump's nominee to lead the FBI. ""I don't know Kash Patel, we have to have him go through the process.""
""Like all the other nominees, he'll get a process and a confirmation hearing and vetting and everything else. They'll all have to through it, and we'll see where the process takes us,"" incoming Senate Republican Leader John Thune said about Patel.
The responses fell short of glowing endorsements for some of Trump's nominees. And even as many Republicans call for regular processes to be followed as these nominations are considered, there remains at least one discrepancy on what a normal order process would look like.
The Trump transition team on Tuesday entered a memorandum of understanding with the Justice Department that allows it to submit names for FBI background checks, Trump's Chief of Staff Susie Wiles said, but the memo does not indicate that it will.
ABC News has reached out to the transition team to see if it intends to submit all Cabinet nominees for background checks.
Though vetting of nominations has traditionally included an FBI background check, Republican senators are torn on whether one is 100% necessary for confirmation.
Thune told ABC News the issue over background checks will hopefully be ""resolved."" While noting that there are ""other alternatives"" for getting information, Thune said that FBI background checks are ""historically"" the best way.
""I think, hopefully at some point they'll get this background check issue resolved. At this point I'm not sure exactly how it's going to be resolved but I think they will. I think the administration understands there's got to be a thorough vetting of all of these noms,"" Thune said. ""And that, you know, historically, the best place to get that done has been through the FBI. They have other alternatives, you know, obviously, I assume our committee chairman will just want to make sure that they've got the background that they need to carefully evaluate these noms.""
Sen. Roger Wicker, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee that will be responsible for managing Hegseth's nomination, told ABC News the panel is ""looking at the way its been done traditionally and getting information about that as to who actually orders the FBI background check.""
But when pushed on whether he would want to see an FBI background check, he said he would.
""I would prefer a full background check, yes,"" Wicker said.
Sen. John Kennedy, R-La., said he believes there will be background checks and he'd like to see them.
""My preference would be an FBI background check, and I'm not, I don't know that we won't have FBI background checks. I know that we have really good staffs and really good investigators, and they work closely with the FBI, so I'm not worried at all about -- about not having background checks done on -- not just these nominees, but any nominees by a president. I think that¡¦s a false issue,"" Kennedy said.
Some senators kept their cards close on this issue.
Cornyn ignored questions on whether he'd want to see a FBI background check for nominees like Patel.
But others are prepared to follow Trump's lead.
""My position is what President Trump decides to do is what I will support,"" Sen. Mike Crapo, R-Idaho, said.
No Republican senator flatly rejected Patel as Trump's choice to lead the Department of Justice, though many said they'll wait for Patel to move through the Senate Judiciary Committee before making a decision on him.
But ultimately, for Patel to be installed, current FBI Director Chris Wray would need to be fired or step down.
There appears to be a general sense among Republicans that they would be okay with Wray being forced out.
""I am, I am,"" Capito said when asked if she would be comfortable with Trump removing Wray to install Patel.
Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa, said she likes Patel, and added that the FBI needs someone new to ""go in and clean it up.""
Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., said it is reasonable for Trump to want to put in place someone he is comfortable with after his experiences during his first administration and in the years that followed.
""Think about what this guy has gone through, he's had his house raided, he's been indicted, so I think he's probably in a position that you know, and then think about it in his first term, he had a special prosecutor, so I think he probably wants somebody that he knows is going to be loyal,"" Scott said.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	5274	0
abcnews	Republican senators express growing concerns over Pete Hegseth misconduct allegations	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/pete-hegseth-ignores-questions-misconduct-allegations-amid-meetings/story?id=116408882	"Sen. Lindsey Graham called reports about Hegseth ""very disturbing.""
Pete Hegseth, President-elect Donald Trump's pick for defense secretary, was back on Capitol Hill Tuesday looking to shore up support as he fends off new allegations of misconduct and sexual impropriety.
The allegations were top of mind for Republican senators, one of whom called recent reports ""very disturbing."" Several GOP lawmakers suggested Hegseth needed to come forward and address them.
But Hegseth, holding hands with his wife as he walked the halls, continued to ignore questions about theNew Yorker reportthat he was forced to step down from two veteran nonprofit groups -- Veterans for Freedom and Concerned Veterans for America -- amid accusations of financial mismanagement, sexist behavior and other disqualifying behavior.
The magazine cited what it called a detailed seven-page whistleblower report -- compiled by multiple former C.V.A. employees -- stating that, at one point, Hegseth had to be restrained while drunk from joining the dancers on the stage of a Louisiana strip club, where he had brought his team. The report also says that Hegseth, who was married at the time, and other members of his management team sexually pursued the organization¡¦s female staffers, the magazine said.
ABC News has not independently confirmed the magazine's account. Hegseth's attorney, Tim Parlatore, told The New Yorker the claims were ""outlandish.""
""We're going to meet with every senator that wants to meet with us, across the board, and we welcome their advice as we go through the advice and consent process,"" Hegseth told reporters as he arrived for a second day of sitdowns with senators.
Hegseth was asked dozens of questions by reporters, including what he would say to those troubled by the allegations, whether the women who've spoken out are lying, whether he had a drinking problem and if the Trump transition team had been aware of the allegations.
He did not respond, including when asked by ABC's Elizabeth Schulze about GOP Sen. Joni Ernst saying she thinks he should have agreed to a background check.
Trump's team came out in defense of Hegseth earlier Tuesday. Senior adviser Jason Miller, in an interview on CNN, attempted to brush off the allegations as ""innuendo and gossip.""
""So, when it comes to Pete Hegseth, there aren't any concerns, and we feel very good about his positioning for being confirmed by the Senate,"" Miller said. ""Now we have to take the process very seriously.""
Republican senators, peppered with questions on Hegseth and other recent Trump picks as they returned to Washington this week, also say they want a ""normal"" confirmation process to play -- which would routinely include FBI background checks.
But some of their statements, so far, stopped short of glowing endorsements.
""I think some of these articles are very disturbing. He obviously has a chance to defend himself here, but some of this stuff is -- it's going to be difficult. Time will tell,¡¨ said Sen. Lindsey Graham, who sits on the Senate Judiciary Committee.
""Leadership comes from the top, and I want to make sure that every young woman who joins the military space is respected,"" Graham said, seemingly referencing Hegseth'scomments against women serving in combat roles.
Sen. Josh Hawley, another member of the key panel, argued Hegseth would have the opportunity to answer all questions during the confirmation process though notably indicated some of his Republican colleagues are ""very worried.""
""I would just urge my Republican colleagues, who are very worried, I know a number of them are expressing public concern -- it's fine, but I would just urge them, before they make up their minds, right before they make up their minds, let them have this hearing and listen to let's go through the process here and give them a shot to answer this and more and to lay out this vision for you,"" Hawley said.
Sen. Tommy Tuberville, who stood by Hegseth as a ""great"" pick on Monday, had similarly suggested Hegseth could face headwinds.
""Obviously, if it's to a certain degree, people are not going to vote to confirm it,"" Tuberville said when asked about the allegations after their meeting. ""But what I know when I talk to him about what I've read, what I've studied and been around him, I'll vote for him.""
Many suggesting that he needs to come forward and address it.
""Well, these allegations that have come up just in the last 12 to 14 hours are a surprise to all of us, and so yes, he does need to address those because this was not something of which we were aware, nor was President Trump aware of them,"" said Sen. Cynthia Lummis, R-Wyo., who met with Hegseth on Monday night with a group of senators.
Asked about his ability to make it through the nomination process, Lummis said she hopes to meet with him one-on-one and deferred to how he addresses the new allegations.
""It depends on how he addresses the issues that have been raised,"" Lummis said. ""Some of the earlier issues that were raised about an incident in California I think were satisfactorily addressed and would not have interfered with his nomination, but some new things that have come to light in the last 12 to 14 hours are things he needs to address.""
""I have read all the articles, I have seen all the allegations. And Mr. Hegseth is going to have to address it,"" Sen. John Kennedy, R-La., said.
""I want to know if they're true, and I want to hear his side of the story. And he's going to have to address them,"" Kennedy added.
Hegseth met Tuesday with Sen. Deb Fischer, one of two Republican women on the Senate Armed Services Committee, and GOP Sen. Bill Hagerty in their respective offices.
He was also scheduled to meet with Republican Sens. Ted Budd, Shelley Moore Capito, Jim Risch and Eric Schmitt.
Schmitt said he was ""definitely going to ask questions"" about the allegations.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	5896	-1
abcnews	Casten introduces new privileged resolution to force release of Gaetz report	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/casten-introduces-new-privileged-resolution-force-ethics-committee/story?id=116422629	"The new resolution includes examples of reports released on former members.
Illinois Democratic Rep. Sean Casten on Tuesday afternoon introduced anupdated privileged resolutionto try to force the bipartisan House Ethics Committee to release its investigative report on former Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz, who was President-elect Donald Trump's selection as attorney general.
¡§Be it resolved that the Committee on Ethics of the House of Representatives shall immediately release the latest draft of its report and a summary of its findings to the public, including any conclusions, draft reports, recommendations, attachments, exhibits and accompanying materials with such redactions as may be necessary and appropriate to protect sensitive information, including witness identities relating to its investigation into allegations against former Representative Matt Gaetz,¡¨ Casten said, reading the full resolution on the House floor.
Speaker Mike Johnson has opposed releasing the report, saying that the Ethics Committee customarily drops its investigations once a member has left Congress.
Rep. Casten¡¦s updated resolution includes several previous examples of the committee releasing reports on former members of Congress.
The House must hold a vote on the resolution within two legislative days, meaning it will occur on Wednesday or Thursday. Republican leadership is expected to introduce a motion to table it once the resolution hits the floor for a vote.
The move by Casten comes as the Ethics Committee is slated to meet on Thursday to discuss the Gaetz report.
Prior to Gaetz withdrawing from consideration as attorney general, Casten had led 97 House Democrats with aletterthat requested a release of the report. Democrats would need a handful of Republicans to cross party lines for the move to be successful.
Casten remained adamant that the report should be released, regardless of Gaetz withdrawing.
""No workplace would allow that information to be swept under the rug simply because someone resigned for office,"" Casten told ABC News last month. ""It matters for the integrity of the law. It matters for the integrity of this House, and it matters for the respect that we expect the American people to give us, that those of us entrusted with this job will uphold the United States as a land where all are treated equally under the law.""
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	2394	0
abcnews	"Biden, during Angola visit, speaks of 'shared history' of slavery"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/biden-angola-visit-speaks-shared-history-slavery/story?id=116406223	"He spoke at a museum where millions of African slaves were baptized.
President Joe Biden on Tuesday, during his diplomatic trip to Angola, acknowledged America's ""original sin"" of slavery and the slave trade that once connected theUnited Statesand the African nation.
""I've learned that while history can be hidden, it cannot and should not be erased,"" Biden said. ""It should be faced. It's our duty to face our history. The good, the bad and the ugly. The whole truth. That's what great nations do.""
The remarks were delivered at the National Museum of Slavery, where Biden said millions of Africans were baptized into a ""foreign faith against their will"" before being forced into slave ships to travel across the Atlantic Ocean.
""We're gathering in a solemn location because to fully consider how far our two countries have come in our friendship, we have to remember how we began,"" Biden said outside the museum on a rainy afternoon.
""We hear them in the wind and the waves: young women, young men born free in the highlands in Angola, only to be captured, bound and forced in a death march along this very coast to this spot by slave traders in the year 1619,"" Biden said.
The White House announced earlier this week, as Biden arrived in Angola, that it was giving a $229,000 grant to help with a restoration of the museum and its conservation.
The diplomatic trip is aimed at deepening the relationship between the two countries, and marks the first-ever visit to Angola by a sitting U.S. president and the first sub-Saharan trip by an American leader since President Barack Obama in 2015.
Biden kicked off the visit with a bilateral meeting earlier Tuesday with President Jo_o Lourenco in Luanda.
The two men talked about trade and economic opportunities, protecting democracy and the growth of the U.S.-Angola relationship, according to the White House.
Biden celebrated the partnership further in his remarks, saying it's as ""strong as it's ever been"" and that the ""United States is all in on Africa's future.""
""The story of Angola and the United States holds a lesson for the world: two nations with a shared history in evil of human bondage, two nations on opposite sides of the Cold War defining struggle in the late part of the 20th century,"" Biden said. ""And now two nations standing shoulder to shoulder, working together every day for the mutual benefit of our people.""
""It's a reminder that no nation need be permanently the adversary of another testament to the human capacity for reconciliation and proof that from every -- from the horrors of slavery and war, there is a way forward,"" Biden added.
On Wednesday, Biden will tour part of the Lobito rail corridor, which is being partially financed by the U.S., that will help transport goods and materials across Africa -- a development seen as a way to counter China's influence in the region.
White House National Security Communications Adviser John Kirby touted the project in an interview with ABC News' Alex Presha.
Kirby said the administration was ""very confident that the Lobito corridor is going to be a success,"" noting it's a multilateral effort with support from U.S. allies and benefits American companies that will build part of the railway at home before it's transported to Africa.
Looming over Biden's historic visit, though, was the decision to pardon his son Hunter Biden. Biden has not answered reporters' shouted questions on the pardon while he's been in Angola.
Asked if the pardon has diverted attention away from Biden's trip, Kirby said Biden is focused on ""how important this is, again, not just to the people of Angola and the continent, but to the American people.""
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3709	0
abcnews	Black Republicans feel left out of Trump¡¦s 2nd-term picks	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/black-republicans-feel-left-trumps-term-picks/story?id=116205418	"Besides HUD secretary, the president-elect has picked no Blacks for his Cabinet.
As President-elect Donald Trump fills out his Cabinet and chooses his closet advisers ahead of Inauguration Day, many African American leaders are asking why more Black people haven't been appointed to key positions.
ABC News spoke to more than a half dozen longtime and new African American conservatives and Republicans within Trumpworld, in and outside of Washington.
Last month, the president-elect appointedScott Turner, who was executive director of the White House Opportunity and Revitalization Council during Trump's first term, to serve as secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
One area of frustration for many Black Republicans was speculation that if Trump did nominate an African American to his administration, it would be at HUD, the department that has had the most Black secretary appointments of any.
One Black Southern Republican told ABC News, ""Why is every Black person given HUD?"" adding that it was ""the literal Black job of the administration.""
ABC News reached out to Trump¡¦s transition team for comment on his selections but did not get a reply.
Six African Americans have served as HUD secretaries, including Robert Weaver, the first. His appointment in 1966 by President Lyndon B. Johnson also made him the first African American appointed to a Cabinet-level position.
The first African American woman to serve in a presidential cabinet was Patricia Roberts Harris, who was the first African American Health and Human Services director and later HUD secretary. She served under President Jimmy Carter.
Former HUD Secretary Samuel Pierce was the only Black Cabinet official in the Ronald Reagan administration. Dr. Ben Carson at HUD was Trump's sole Black cabinet member in his first term.
In mid-November, Carsonpostedthat he was ""excited to speak with President Trump about how I will continue to advance the America First agenda, and I am meeting with him in the near future.""
""However, contrary to reports, I will not be serving as the Surgeon General,"" he said.
The departments of Treasury and Interior remain the only departments that have never had a Black secretary.
Another key position Black conservatives believe needs to be filled by an African American is assistant to the president, a senior-level role within the White House. Trump previously appointedOmarosa Manigault Newman, a contestant on his ""The Apprentice"" TV series, as the sole Black assistant to the president.
""I do think if you're really talking about Black influence inside the White House, does Trump want his only legacy of having the only AP for two terms be Omarosa?"" one Black Republican strategist asked.
After Newman's departure, Ja'Ron Smith served as a special assistant on legislative affairs before rising to deputy assistant to the president for domestic policy. Ashley Bell, a prominent Black Republican, served as a White House adviser on entrepreneurship and a regional administrator for the Small Business Administration. Bell's former boss is former SBA Administrator Linda McMahon, who Trump announced as his pick for the Department of Education. McMahon also is co-chair of the Trump-Vance transition team.
Some of the former president's most ardent defenders have grown restless with the lack of Black appointees, as Trump selected several others who would be firsts in those positions. If confirmed, Sen. Marco Rubio would be the first Hispanic secretary of state; Scott Bessent would be the first openly gay Treasury secretary; and Tulsi Gabbard will be the first Asian American and youngest-ever director of national intelligence.
""I can't tweet that we need more Black conservatives because the left will attack me saying it's a DEI hire,"" the southern Republican said.
However, one Black Republican operative told ABC News it is still very early when it comes to appointments.
""The Republican Party has never really fallen into the category of 'representation matters.' Our strength comes from diversity, but that is not our bumper sticker slogan. We're not going to nominate Black folks for the sake of nominating Black people,"" the Republican operative said.
The operative noted that Black Republicans have made strides in leadership across the country. Sen. Tim Scott will chair the National Republican Senatorial Committee; Rep. Byron Donald is speculated as possibly running for governor or U.S. Senate in Florida; and Winsome Sears is seeking to become the first Black female governor in the country in Virginia.
Donalds on CNN last month took aim at President Joe Biden¡¦s focus on diversity within his administration when asked about the lack of diversity among Trump¡¦s nominees, saying ¡§if you look at how the Democrats filled Joe Biden's cabinet, they wanted to have a piece of every identity. But did they get the job done? Did they actually serve the interest of the American people?""
""What Donald Trump's election is about, is bringing competency and reality back to D.C. in the White House, regardless of their race, regardless of their religion, regardless of their creed."" the Florida congressman added.
Although some Black leaders inside and out of politics are highly qualified, another barrier that Black conservatives face is added scrutiny because of their dual identity.
Dedrick Asante-Muhammad, president of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a non-partisan organization that studies diversity in government and congressional staff, said that the Trump administration differs vastly from past Republican administrations.
""Trump isn't a traditional Republican, he doesn't use traditional Republican institutions in the same way that past presidential candidates have, so there isn't a kind of pipeline, long-term relations,"" Asante-Muhammad said.
""Being a part of Trumpworld isn't easy. It is almost a personal blacklist thing in the outside world. So it is risky, in my opinion, to be a part of this organization for Black people that may want to be a part of the cause, but it's not worth their bottom dollar,"" one Black Republican strategist added.
""When Black people are put underneath this microscope of being Trump-affiliated, they look past your color and you are public enemy number one,"" a Black Republican operative said.
The Republican strategist said Black Republicans face a different set of expectations -- they don't necessarily thrive in spaces that are massively disruptive, such as the second Trump term.
""I don't think disruption really leans into our skillset the way things are currently set up, we have to play things a little bit differently. There's no Black Republican version of Matt Gatez. They don't last,"" the strategist added.
""Those of us who have survived and been there for years and made it work have done so by being steady, consistent, reliable, and trustworthy, "" the strategist said.
The majority of Black Republicans who spoke to ABC News acknowledged that while the optics of Trump being surrounded by mostly white people aren't ideal, they believe if Trump delivers on a better economy, securing the border, Second Step Act, and judicial reform it could be transformative for the Black community, but they do want the former president to hire more Black conservatives.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	7331	0
abcnews	Congress could determine NFL Washington Commanders¡¦ home stadium	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/congress-determine-nfl-washington-commanders-home-stadium/story?id=116405242	"Commanders' owner blitzes Congress with DC stadium bill on the agenda.
Congress's December to-do list includes an unusual item this year: a bill that could determine the home of the NFL's Washington Commanders.
Since 1997, the team has played home games in nearby Maryland, and the former home of the team, Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium, hasfallen into disrepair.
But there is new momentum behind a bipartisan bill to grant the District of Columbia a 99-year lease on the federal land that could allow the city to make a deal with the team to return to Washington after 28 years.
The House approved the bill in February. A key Senate committee did the same last month -- after the team and league promised Republican Sen. Steve Dainesit would honorthe team's old Redskins logo that depicts a chief of Montana's Blackfeet tribe.
""We¡¦ve had good discussions with the NFL and with the Commanders,""Daines told Fox Newslast month. ""There¡¦s good faith negotiations going forward that¡¦s gonna allow this logo to be used again,"" he added, citing this as the reason why he changed his mind to favor the bill.
Now, advocates are blitzing the halls of Congress, trying to get Senate leaders to add the measure to a year-end spending bill.
On Monday, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and Commanders Managing Partner Josh Harris met with Hill leaders on the stadium proposal and among other matters, a league source and Commanders team source confirmed to ABC News.
If the Senate doesn't approve the deal by the end of the month, the bill dies, and both chambers would need to start from scratch in 2025.
That could also leave the fate of the project in the hands of President-electDonald Trump.
Trump has feuded with the NFL and D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser and has slammed D.C. as ""filthy"", and crime ridden. But the developer-turned-president has also promised to redevelop the city - and onceaspired to own an NFL franchise.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	1961	0
abcnews	DNC hopes to highlight success ahead of post-election meeting	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/dnc-hopes-highlight-success-ahead-post-election-meeting/story?id=116390240	"DNC Chair Jaime Harrison said the election was a ""mixed bag.""
The Democratic National Committee is hoping to highlight down-ballot successes last month as it hosts a key post-election meeting and looks to turn the page from its stinging White House loss.
DNC Chair Jaime Harrison wrote in a grassroots memo obtained first by ABC News that while Democrats fell short in the presidential race, beefy and historic investments in down-ballot contests offer a roadmap to success. The party was able to salvage four Senate races in states President-elect Donald Trump won and gain House seats despite headwinds at the top of the ticket.
""As we reflect on the cycle and take stock of where we fell short, it¡¦s equally important to assess what worked. Data shows that the work of the DNC and our partners was effective in beating back what could have been a larger red wave,"" Harrison wrote.
""In 2024, the DNC made strategic campaign grants in every state party for the first time in history, and delivered record-breaking investments directly to coordinated campaigns in every state -- totaling over $264 million,"" he added. ""These investments yielded results and underscore the importance of continued state party investmentÿ""
The memo marks the first public, thorough dissection by the DNC of the election results, in which Vice President Kamala Harris lost to Trump and Republicans flipped the Senate and kept the House of Representatives.
The document paints a rosy portrait of a party that failed to keep the White House but won Senate races in Trump-won states like Arizona, Michigan, Nevada, and Wisconsin, key House races in California and New York, and won a gubernatorial race in North Carolina, a state that has been a white whale for Democrats at the federal level.
Harrison specifically writes that despite the disappointments, Trump was kept below 50% in the popular vote (he still won it), Democrats held Senate seats in states Trump won and cut into Republicans' House margin, and the party was successful in breaking some GOP state legislative majorities and holding on in certain chambers, including its one-seat majority in the Pennsylvania state House.
The memo highlights DNC efforts in all those cases, including voter registration efforts, investments in key demographic groups in Senate races, efforts in New York and California to boost prospects in key House races there and money sent to traditionally noncompetitive states like Alaska and Arkansas to make state legislative gains.
""Notable down-ballot wins in 2024 provide us with a roadmap on what works and where investments mattered most,"" Harrison wrote.
The memo is being released at the start of a meeting of the Association of State Democratic Committees, where state party leaders will gather to discuss what went right and wrong in November.
The election is sparking a crowded race to lead the DNC, with Harrison not running for reelection as chair, and a broader party reckoning over its identity and whether it should be more centrist, populist, progressive or some combination of the three.
In an interview, Harrison conceded the election was a ""mixed bag.""
""Of course, we lost the most important election on that ticket, the presidential election, and I'm heartbroken over that,"" he said.
""But then when we start to look underneath that race and look into the battleground states, and what happened in other races, it's, again, a mixed bag. Donald Trump didn't have the coattails. It was not this landslide vote that many people wanted to say that it was on Election Day because Democrats still won in many of those battleground states.""
Harrison cited several reasons behind the ""mixed"" results.
On the one hand, Harris faced a historically short runway after President Joe Biden left the race in July, combined with economic headwinds and a liberal media ecosystem that still struggles to match Republican heavyweights like Fox News. Trump, Harrison said, had emerged as a ""cultural"" figure over the course of nine years who was able to put together an expansive coalition.
""I think time definitely was a part of it,"" Harrison said. ""I thought that she was going to be become sort of a cultural figure. Just seeing the early energy, I need to tell you, man, just that convention alone, I felt like there was something turning. But it didn't go full circle. And that's something that we got to figure out. Why not? Did we change the message? What did we do in order not to have it go full circle?""
""I don't know if we need to find our own Joe Rogan [the influential podcaster who interviewed then endorsed Trump days before the election], and I've heard that from a number of folks, but I think we need to make sure that we're in in all those spaces,"" he added of whether Democrats need to expand their media strategy in traditional and non-traditional outlets.
Still, Harrison found positive signs in a state party infrastructure that Democrats had worked hard to revive after years of atrophy in recent years.
""We got to continue those investments. We can't go back to the post-Obama years in which we minimized the amount of resources that the DNC sent to state parties,"" he said. ""We are still trying to work our way back from that point in time. So, now, it's about focusing on continuing moving forward.""
Still, the meeting isn't taking place in a vacuum, and the present could get in the way of discussions about the future.
Biden dropped a bombshell Sunday night when he announced that he was pardoning his son, Hunter, leading to a flood of Democratic criticism Monday over his intervention in Justice Department proceedings.
However, Harrison said he believed that the ASDC meeting would stay on track.
""The president is a good man, he's a decent man, he's a just person, and he always tries to do the best thing, and this is, I believe, the best thing at this point in time,"" Harrison said. ""Almost to a person, the Democrats that I've talked to, grassroots activists, Democrats, are leading. This won't consume that.""
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	6061	0
abcnews	Tuberville praises defense secretary pick Pete Hegseth amid misconduct allegations	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/tuberville-praises-defense-secretary-pick-pete-hegseth-amid/story?id=116390332	"Alabama Sen. Tommy Tuberville said Hegseth would be ""great"" in the position.
Following his meeting Monday with Secretary of Defense nominee Pete Hegseth, Alabama Sen. Tommy Tuberville told reporters Hegseth would be ""great"" for the position.
Tuberville said he didn't talk with Hegseth about his ""personal"" life on Monday, but later clarified that they indeed spoke on the phone about the misconduct allegations against Hegseth.
""I'm gonna leave the personal stuff between y'all and him whenever he has an opportunity to sit down with you and explain, you know, the allegations that you're all pushing out,"" Tuberville told reporters.
In 2017, Hegsethpaid a settlement agreementto a woman who accused him of sexual assault, Tim Parlatore, an attorney for Hegseth, previously confirmed. Parlatore claimed Hegseth was the victim of ""blackmail"" and ""false claims of sexual assault,"" and said he paid the settlement only because he feared his career would suffer if her allegations were made public.
According to a22-page police reportobtained by ABC News, Hegseth's accuser told police that he took her phone and blocked her from leaving his hotel room on the night of the incident.
On Sunday, theNew Yorkerpublished an investigation into Hegseth that alleged that ""a trail of documents, corroborated by the accounts of former colleagues, indicates that Hegseth was forced to step down by both of the two nonprofit advocacy groups that he ran -- Veterans for Freedom and Concerned Veterans for America -- in the face of serious allegations of financial mismanagement, sexual impropriety, and personal misconduct.""
The New York Timespublished an email Friday that Hegseth's mother, Penelope Hegseth, sent him in 2018, saying he had routinely mistreated women for years. Penelope Hegseth confirmed the contents of the email to the New York Times in a phone interview, but said in the interview to the Times that she regretted her original sentiments expressed in the email and sent her son an immediate follow-up email expressing regret for what she had said.
ABC News has not independently confirmed the New Yorker or New York Times' reporting.
Speaking to reporters after their meeting, Tuberville praised Hegseth and sidestepped questions about his alleged pattern of misconduct.
""I've known him for a while. Pete's the type of guy that he's going to work. He's got a great work ethic. He's very, very smart. He understands the business side as well as the military side."" Tuberville said. ""He's actually fought in wars. He is a good age too. Somebody that can relate to the young men and women that we need to recruit in the military.""
Asked if any of the allegations in the New Yorker article concerned him, Tuberville left the explanation up to Hegseth.
""Well, I'm gonna leave that to his explanation of all that. I can't comment on that,"" he said. ""Obviously, if it's to a certain degree, people are not going to vote to confirm it, but what I know when I talk to him about what I've read, what I've studied and been around him, I'll vote for him.""
As Tuberville took question after question on Hegseth's allegations, he was asked if Hegseth needed to defend himself forcefully and provide an explanation to the American people.
""That's up to him,"" Tuberville said. ""Eventually he's gonna have to come out and start visiting with the media. I think, right now, his number one objective is to go out and and sell himself to you know, at least 51 or 52 Senators. That's the job he needs to do to get confirmed.""
Tuberville mentioned a dozen of senators are meeting with Hegseth as a group Monday night, but he did not elaborate further.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3683	0
abcnews	"Biden's pardon of son, Hunter, roils Democrats' post-election reckoning: ANALYSIS"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/bidens-pardon-son-hunter-roils-democrats-post-election/story?id=116385823	"""You can't get any more elite than this,"" one Democrat said.
President Joe Biden's decision to pardon his son, Hunter, is throwing a bomb in his party's post-election soul-searching.
Democrats are still sifting through the rubble of their loss to President-elect Donald Trump last month, with some in the party blaming a reputation -- justified or not -- as elitists out of touch with everyday voters' concerns while cozying up to other wealthy and well-connected allies.
Now, after months of vows that he wouldn't do so and arguing the justice system treated Trump appropriately, Biden is scrapping his son's supposedly politicized convictions on tax and gun charges, sparking a warning the move fortifies perceptions that the party doesn't keep its word and is playing by its own set of rules.
""This literally reinforces the very challenge that Democrats confronted in the election, which is elites talking to elites convincing each other that they're right. Well, you can't get any more elite than this,"" said Chris Kofinis, a Democratic strategist and former aide to Sen. Joe Manchin, I-W.Va.
""It's not the question of pardoning the son. What about everybody else's son?"" Kofinis added. ""If you're going to take this kind of a dramatic action that's going to benefit a single person in your family, you have a responsibility to go out there and say why. But you can't say the reason why is because the justice system is rigged, because you just spent the last four years saying it wasn't rigged. So, it's not rigged for Trump, but it's rigged for your son?""
Hunter Biden had been convicted on federal gun charges after lying about his drug use on an application for a firearm and had pleaded guilty to nine tax-related charges, including three felonies.
The president's announcement Sunday evening marked a bombshell at the tail end of a holiday weekend. In it, Biden insisted that his son had been ""treated differently"" after ""several of my political opponents in Congress instigated them to attack me and oppose my election.""
The pardon is also particularly broad, covering all ""offenses against the United States which he has committed or may have committed or taken part in"" from Jan. 1, 2014, through Dec. 1, 2024, beyond the gun and tax charges.
Republicans swiftly cried foul at the move, lambasting it as a manipulation of justice, particularly after Biden for months said he wouldn't use his power to intervene in his son's legal troubles.
""Joe Biden has lied from start to finish,"" House Oversight Chair James Comer, R-Ky.,wrote in a post on X. ""It's unfortunate that, rather than come clean about their decades of wrongdoing, President Biden and his family continue to do everything they can to avoid accountability.""
""Tonight's pardon is wrong. It proves to the American people that there is a two-tier system of justice,"" added Wyoming Sen. John Barrasso, who will be the No. 2 Senate Republican in the next Congress.
Democratic lawmakers were tighter-lipped over the pardon late Sunday but were more vocal in their opposition by Monday afternoon.
""Democrats should have been for reforming and curtailing pardon power from Day 1 of the Biden Presidency. As a father, I empathize with President Biden, but we must be the party of reform whether it's about the archaic pardon power, opposing super PACs or broad war powers,"" Rep. Ro Khanna, D-Calif.,said on X.
""President Biden's decision to pardon his son was wrong. A president's family and allies shouldn't get special treatment. This was an improper use of power, it erodes trust in our government, and it emboldens others to bend justice to suit their interests,"" Sen. Gary Peters, D-Mich,added.
Now, some party operatives warned to ABC News, Democrats risked being seen as executing the same behavior they'd been warning against from Trump ahead of his inauguration, making their campaign rhetoric about the justice system's integrity apply to only one side of the political divide.
""It is somewhat toying with [voters],"" one Democratic pollster said. ""The takeaway, to the extent that there are any left, for the average, independent voter is, is that, both sides are just playing games with each other. They don't mean any of this rhetoric.""
The White House Monday sought to play damage control, laying blame at the feet of Republicans who will have unified control of Washington starting later next month and have hammered away at Hunter Biden's legal travails and business ties for years.
White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre told reporters that Biden issued the pardon in part ""because they didn't seem like his political opponents would let go of it.""
""They would continue to go after his son. That's what he believed,"" she added, declining to speculate on the political fallout of the move.
""Two things could be true. You can believe in the department of justice system, and you could also believe that the process was affected politically,"" she insisted.
The pardon controversy is coming as some Democrats partly blame Biden's decision to run for reelection in the first place as a reason for Harris' defeat.
While many Democrats expressed empathy for Biden's position as a father, they suggested it marked another reason to put the president in the rearview mirror as the party puts together a new playbook for the future -- a separation that, some hoped, could minimize any long-term fallout.
""I think the party is already going to move on from him so deeply and so completely that I don't know that this severs that connection between Biden and the future the Democratic Party any more or any less than it already would have been. If anything, it may quicken it,"" one senior Democratic strategist said.
""I think it's politically stupid,"" the person said. ""It makes us look bad, and it makes us look like we don't have the moral high ground, and we either need to own that, or we need to own that we need to stop being so preachy. I think it's bad politics, but it's not clear to me what exactly the repercussions will be.""
Still, that doesn't mean Democrats who are skeptical of any long-term implications are pleased with the move.
Nearly every Democrat who spoke to ABC News worried that Biden's pardon kicked the door open for Trump to protect people they predicted will be unworthy of pardons. And to fend off any prolonged fallout amid a broader makeover, even theoretical, some suggested that a robust denouncement from party leaders could go a long way.
""It's not going to eliminate it, because Biden is the president of the United States,"" the Democratic pollster said. ""But if Democrats ever hope to reinvent themselves in a post-Biden future, they're going to need to start by denouncing Biden now when it's hard, not in the future, when it'll be easier.""
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	6804	
abcnews	Supreme Court divided over FDA block on kid-friendly flavored vapes	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/supreme-court-weighs-fda-block-kid-friendly-flavored/story?id=116232703	"Justices will decide whether regulators unlawfully rejected nicotine products.
The Supreme Court on Monday was divided over whether the Food and Drug Administration hadunlawfully rejectedmillions of flavored e-cigarettes for approved sale in U.S. over concerns about nicotine addiction among young people.
During oral arguments in a case that could have a significant impact on public health, the justices grappled with tobacco industry claims that the government had given unclear and shifting requirements for new product applications and failed to provide proper notice to the companies.
""FDA switched its position on what studies were required"" to show that the products have benefits to existing smokers that offset risks to youth, argued Eric Heyer, the attorney representing vape manufacturers Triton Distribution and Vapetasia, which are seeking a green light to market e-liquids such as ¡§Jimmy the Juice Man Peachy Strawberry¡¨ and ¡§Iced Pineapple Express.¡¨
Federal law requires sellers of new nicotine products to provide regulators with scientific evidence to show that the products would promote public health, but the statute does not spell out specifically what evidence is necessary and sufficient. The FDA's guidance on how to meet that requirement is at the center of the case.
""Their argument is that the guidance were actually a moving target, that either they weren't clear or you changed the guidance as time went on,"" said Justice Clarence Thomas, who appeared sympathetic to vape manufacturers.
""That is their argument,"" replied Biden administration lawyer Curtis Gannon, representing the FDA, adding, ""But I think that the key point is that they knew from the statute that they needed to be making this comparison about what the benefits were with respect to existing smokers and weighing that against the potential costs with respect to nonsmokers and attracting youth.""
Justice Neil Gorusch suggested that the companies might not have been given ""fair notice"" of how they could comply with the law. ""Wouldn't due process require an opportunity for notice and a hearing?"" he asked Gannon.
E-cigarettes and vapes, which deliver nicotine without some of the harmful effects of smoking, have beenbooming in popularity. Kid-friendly flavors, such as fruit, candy, mint, menthol and desserts, are not approved by the FDA and are on the market illegally.
While vaping among youth is declining, more than 1.6 million children use the products, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Nearly 90% of them consume illicit flavored brands.
Manufacturers have acknowledged that their products may appeal to youth but insist that a ¡§growing body of scientific evidence¡¨ shows that ¡§flavors are crucial to getting adult smokers to make the switch and stay away from combustible cigarettes.¡¨
A federal appeals court sided with the companies last year, saying the agency had acted arbitrarily. If the Supreme Court upholds that ruling, it could clear the way for broader marketing and sale of flavored nicotine products.
The Court's three liberal justices all seemed to share the government's view that FDA did not illegally move the goal posts during the process and that the companies simply lacked the evidence to win approval.
Since 2009, when Congress passed legislation aimed at curbing tobacco use among young people, the government has almost universally denied tobacco company requests to sell flavored nicotine e-liquids, citing risks of addiction among minors.
The FDA said the two companies in this case provided insufficient evidence that the benefits of their flavored e-products in helping tobacco smokers quit exceed the dangers of hooking children.
""I'm so totally confused,"" Justice Sonia Sotomayor told Heyer. ""What [FDA] said is what you provided wasn't sufficient.""
Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson said she was ""baffled"" by Heyer's argument because the FDA had explicitly articulated its standard.
""I guess I'm not really seeing what the surprise is here, or what the change is here,"" said Justice Elena Kagan. ""There's just not a lot of mystery here about what FDA was doing. You might disagree with that, because you think that, in fact, the world of 40-year-olds really wants to do blueberry vaping, but you can't say that FDA hasn't told you all about what it's thinking in this respect.""
Justice Brett Kavanaugh, who could be a critical vote in the case, signaled sympathy to the industry's complaint about discretionary government regulation but suggested he wasn't convinced FDA had acted unreasonably.
""If the agency says [your claims of benefits to adult smokers] that doesn't outweigh the harm to youth, we've reviewed everything, we're aware of everything, of course they're aware of everything that's out there, that's kind of the end of it, isn't it?"" Kavanaugh asked.
Even if they lose the case, several justices noted, the vape manufacturers could reapply for approval with the FDA in a new application.
While the first Trump administration had taken a hard line against the marketing and sale of sweet and candy-flavored vapes, president-elect Donald Trump said during the campaign that he wants to ""save"" flavored vapes.
""We don't know exactly what that's going to look like,"" said Heyer. But, he added, that his clients ""can't afford to wait that out.""
Nearly a quarter of high school students who use e-cigarettes consume illicit menthol-flavored varieties, according to the 2023 National Youth Tobacco Survey.
Josie Shapiro, the 2024 national youth ambassador for the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids who testified before Congress on the dangers of nicotine addiction, said illicit flavored vapes hooked her at age 14.
¡§I think that by marketing any sort of flavored product as bubble gum or any of the genres of candy, it's going to catch the eyes of children,¡¨ Shapiro said. ¡§I'm still addicted, and I'm still trying to fight my addiction. Honestly, the FDA needs to regulate all flavored tobaccos to flavor ¡¥tobacco¡¦ products and get them off the market.¡¨
Public health experts have credited the FDA¡¦s restrictions on flavored nicotine products with helping to drive down the number of teenagers who vape gradually from an ¡§epidemic¡¨ level just five years ago.
The case, Food and Drug Administration v. Wages and White Lion Investments, LLC, will be decided before the end of the Supreme Court¡¦s term in June 2025.
ABC News¡¦ Patty See contributed to this report.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	6478	
abcnews	How President Biden came to the decision to pardon his son Hunter	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/president-biden-decision-pardon-son-hunter/story?id=116370218	"The family discussed it together over the Thanksgiving holiday, a source said.
President Joe Biden and his family discussed whether topardon Hunter Bidenduring their time together in Nantucket for Thanksgiving, a source familiar with the matter confirmed to ABC News Monday.
Senior White House staff learned of the possibility of a pardon on Saturday evening. President Biden made his final decision on Sunday, the source said.
Biden did not answer questions on the issue as he left late Sunday for athree-day trip to Africa. He also ignored shouted questions during a brief stop in Cabo Verde on Monday and when he arrived in Angola.
White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, peppered with questions about the pardon during a gaggle with reporters on Air Force One, said Biden ""wrestled"" with the decision and made it himself over the weekend.
""It wasn't an easy decision to make,"" Jean-Pierre said.
She added that President Biden ultimately believed his son was ""singled out politically"" and they ""tried to break his son in order to break him.""
First lady Jill Biden, while unveiling the White House's holiday theme on Monday alongside military families, took a brief question on the Hunter Biden pardon.
""Of course I support the pardon of my son,"" she said.
Hunter Biden, the president's only surviving son, was convicted on federal gun-related charges in June and pleaded guilty to nine tax-related charges in September. Both cases carried the possibility of significant prison time and he was set to be sentenced in both later this month.
President Biden had long said he would not pardon his son, including in aninterview with ABC's David Muiras Hunter Biden's gun trial was underway this past summer.
In his statement on Sunday evening, Biden contended his son was ""unfairly"" prosecuted after pressure from his political opponents.
""For my entire career I have followed a simple principle: just tell the American people the truth. They¡¦ll be fair-minded. Here¡¦s the truth: I believe in the justice system, but as I have wrestled with this, I also believe raw politics has infected this process and it led to a miscarriage of justice -- and once I made this decision this weekend, there was no sense in delaying it further,"" President Biden said.
Hunter Biden, his wife Melissa Cohen Biden and their son Beau, as well as Ashley Biden, spent Thanksgiving in Nantucket with President Biden and first lady Jill Biden.
""I hope Americans will understand why a father and a President would come to this decision,"" the president added.
Asked what changed between Biden's past insistence he would not pardon his son and his announcement Sunday, Jean-Pierre repeatedly referred to Biden's statement.
""He wrestled with it. He thought about it. And he believed, and what he saw, was that his son was singled out,"" she said. ""And so he made this decision and once he made the decision, which was this weekend, he decided to move forward with it, and not to not to wait and. And you know, I think he truly believed enough is enough.""
Republicans, including President-elect Donald Trump, pounced on the reversal.
Congressional Republicans spent years investigating the Biden family, including Hunter Biden, over their business dealings. House Republicansreleased a report in Auguston their impeachment probe filled with allegations, many targeted toward Hunter Biden, but no recommendation of specific impeachment articles and no evidence of President Biden himself being directly involved in alleged improper activities.
It's not clear whether Republicans will continue their probes after President Biden leaves office in January.
Jean-Pierre told reporters on Monday that Biden ""didn't believe they would let up.""
""They would continue to go after his son. That's what he believed,"" Jean-Pierre said.
House Speaker Mike Johnson on Monday criticized the pardon, which extends as far back as 2014.
""President Biden insisted many times he would never pardon his own son for his serious crimes. But last night he suddenly granted a 'Full and Unconditional Pardon' for any and all offenses that Hunter committed for more than a decade!"" Johnson wrote on X. ""Trust in our justice system has been almost irreparably damaged by the Bidens and their use and abuse of it. Real reform cannot begin soon enough!""
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	4346	
abcnews	Transgender teen implores Supreme Court to strike Tennessee gender-affirming care ban	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/transgender-teen-implores-supreme-court-strike-tennessee-gender/story?id=116232417	"""I feel normal now,"" plaintiff says of the treatments she's fighting to protect.
NASHVILLE, Tenn. --The transgender Tennessee teenager behind ahistoric hearingat the U.S. Supreme Court this week doesn't want to show her face on television but is eager to speak about a case she says has the potential to make thousands of American kids feel ""seen"" for who they are.
""The court has definitely ruled in ways that would make me think that they don't exactly value bodily autonomy, but I have heard that they've been a little bit better about trans cases than people would think,"" said 16-year-old LW in an exclusive interview with ABC News alongside her parents Samantha and Brian Williams.
The court on Wednesday will hear the Williams family's challenge to Tennessee's 2023ban on gender-affirming medical treatmentsfor minors, including puberty-blocking medication and hormone therapies that have dramatically improved LW's quality of life.
While the medications have been used safely to treat minors of all genders for years, they are now prohibited in Tennessee when used to treat trans kids struggling with gender dysphoria, the distress experienced when one's gender assigned at birth is different from one's sense of identity.
""It's not very comfortable being trapped in [your body] because it just doesn't feel like you,"" said LW, who reports significant improvement since beginning the treatments in 2022.
Since the state law took effect, LW now has to take time away from school to make a 10-hour round trip out of state to continue receiving care. The travel has also been a costly and time-consuming burden, her parents say.
""It would definitely be horrible for me to have to continue to go out of state to get care,"" said LW. ""I feel normal now.""
Backed by the American Civil Liberties Union, the Biden administration, and major American medical associations, the Williamses sued Tennessee last year alleging the ban on certain gender-affirming treatments for minors discriminates on the basis of sex and overrides the rights of parents to make medical decisions for their children.
""Our state legislature had made such a big deal out of parents' rights during COVID, about masks and vaccines that that's for parents to decide these medical decisions for their children,"" Samantha Williams said. ""And then they made this medical decision for our child.""
State lawmakers who support the law, SB1, say it is meant to protect kids from potentially irreversible effects from treatment and that contradictory scientific evidence and uncertainty about long-term adverse consequences warrant caution.
""We made the policy decision on behalf of our constituents that in Tennessee we think this is a risky procedure,"" said state Sen. Jack Johnson, the Senate GOP leader who sponsored the bill. ""It is our role as policymakers here in the state of Tennessee to set those guardrails.""
The American Academy of Pediatrics says the effects of puberty blockers are not permanent if treatment is discontinued and that many effects of hormone therapy can also be reversed. Long-term risks may include fertility challenges and possible harm to bone density, but the Academy says those risks require further study.
Worldwide, several countries which had previously embraced the treatments for transgender children have subsequently reversed course,citing unclear dataabout their purported benefits and alleged harms. In many of those places, the treatments remain available, but on a much more limited basis.
In Tennessee, there are an estimated 3,000 transgender teenagers between ages 13 and 17, according to theWilliams Instituteat UCLA Law School, which has analyzed Census data. It is not known how many were receiving treatments that are now outlawed or how many suffered alleged harm.
A studypublishedin the medical journal JAMA Pediatrics in October 2024 found the overwhelming majority of participants in a long-term survey of 220 transgender youths reported high levels of satisfaction and low levels of regret in the three to five years after receiving puberty blockers and hormone therapy.
Major American medical associations have for more than a decadeendorsed the useof puberty blockers and hormone therapy as part of ""individually tailored interventions"" to support trans kids and affirm their sense of self.
""It all begins and ends with science. This is not about any sort of agenda,"" said Dr. Ben Hoffman, president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, in an interview with ABC.
Clinical practice guidelines from theAmerican Endocrine Society-- based on more than 260 research studies -- recommend consideration of medications to treat gender dysphoria in young people but waiting until a child reaches adulthood to consider gender-affirming surgery.
""It's crucial that there be a deep understanding of both the risks and benefits, and truly informed consent,"" Hoffman said. ""And for that reason, it is, by definition, going to take months or years.""
The Williams family said the decision to use medication to delay LW's puberty followed months of careful consultation with medical experts and mental health providers. They said they grew worried that masculine changes to LW's body would compound her gender dysphoria.
""There is this time clock sitting here,"" said Brian Williams. ""The kids can go through puberty and it can have permanent effects on them. So these two things you're trying to balance at the same time.""
""She's not suicidal, but she shouldn't have to be suicidal, right?, to get the care that she needs,"" added Samantha Williams. ""When that really hit me, I was like, 'OK, let's do blockers. Let's get moving.'""
More than a year later, LW began receiving hormone therapy to better align her body with her gender identity. The course of treatment led to a reduction in discomfort.
""That was incredibly helpful,"" LW said. ""I feel amazing after that. You know, maybe it's just because the gender dysphoria was so bad.""
The outcome of the case U.S. v. Skrmetti could have a sweeping impact on health care for the more than 300,000 American teens who identify as transgender, as well as the broader LGBTQ community.
""This is one of the most significant LGBTQ cases to ever reach the Supreme Court. I think this is an inflection point,"" said Chase Strangio, the ACLU attorney representing the Williams family. He will be the first openly transgender person to argue a case before the nation's highest court.
""Is this going to be a Bowers v. Hardwick type moment that sets off years of government legitimized discrimination against LGBTQ people? Or, is this going to be a Bostock moment that clarifies what we all have been assuming all this time, which is that LGBTQ people are protected under the Constitution and civil rights laws,"" Strangio said.
In its 1986 decision in Bowers, the court upheld state laws criminalizing private same-sex conduct; it was overturned in 2003. The Court's 2020 decision in Bostock v. Clayton County found that employment discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity is illegal.
Twenty-six states have laws banning gender-affirming treatments for minors, according to theHuman Rights Campaign, an LGBTQ advocacy group.
""What concerns me as a physician is that legislators are going to be able to make decisions about a diagnosis, which is very unusual. I mean, that really hasn't happened,"" said Dr. Susan Lacy, a physician who specializes in hormone management and transgender care for teens and adults at her private practice in Memphis.
Lacy, who is also a party to the Supreme Court case, agrees with Tennessee lawmakers that more research is needed on gender-affirming treatments for minors, but that a debate over the data shouldn't deny patients the chance to make an informed decision of their own.
""I think the most compelling thing is to listen to the patients,"" Lacy said. ""I have about 700 transgender patients out of about 3,000 total patients, and I have not seen anybody have a serious complication -- not one.""
""I think we're just at a point where we're still in the process of treating people and having studies that will give us more and more data to support this treatment,"" she said.
Johnson said he hopes the Supreme Court will upholdan appeals court rulingthat affirmed Tennessee's right to impose restrictions on treatments for transgender minors.
""States should be the laboratories of democracy,"" he said. ""We should be making the vast majority of decisions about what's best for our people, our constituents here in the statehouse.""
The Williams family says care that has improved the life of their daughter should not be up for political debate.
""I want to listen to the doctors. I want to listen to my kid. I want to take care of her, you know?"" Brian Williams said.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	8818	
abcnews	Trump reacts to President Biden pardoning son Hunter before White House exit	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-calls-biden-pardoning-son-hunter-miscarriage-justice/story?id=116360980	"The president-elect invoked imprisoned Jan. 6 rioters in his statement Sunday.
President-elect Donald Trump has reacted to President Joe Bidenissuing a pardonfor his son, Hunter Biden, from a possible prison sentence for federal felony gun and tax convictions.
Trump called the president's decision a ""miscarriage of justice"" while pointing to those imprisoned for the Jan. 6 riots on the Capitol in his post to Truth Social on Sunday.
""Does the Pardon given by Joe to Hunter include the J-6 Hostages, who have now been imprisoned for years? Such an abuse and miscarriage of Justice!"" Trump wrote.
Trump's reaction Sunday comes months after he signaled a Hunter Biden pardon would be something worth considering if he returned to the White House for a second term.
During an interview with conservative radio hostHugh Hewittin October, the president-elect said he ""wouldn't take it off the books"" when asked about pardoning the sitting president's son.
""See, unlike Joe Biden, despite what they've done to me, where they've gone after me so viciously... and Hunter's a bad boy. There's no question about it. He's been a bad boy. All you had to do is see the laptop from hell,"" he said.
""But I happen to think it's very bad for our country,"" Trump added.
In pardoning his son, President Biden spared Hunter the possibility of significant prison time stemming from convictions in two federal cases brought by Special Counsel David Weiss.
Over the summer, a jury found Hunter Biden guilty on three felony counts related to his purchase and possession of a firearm while addicted to drugs.
And in September, he agreed to plead guilty to nine tax-related charges, including three felonies, on the eve of what was expected to be a lengthy and grueling trial.
For the tax charges, Hunter Biden faced up to 17 years in federal prison and $1.35 million in fines. His gun-related conviction carried a potential of up to 25 years in prison. He was scheduled to face sentencing for both cases in the coming weeks ¡V on Dec. 12 on the gun-related charges in Delaware, and Dec. 16 on the tax charges in California.
Trump's reaction to President Biden's decision to pardon his son comes weeks after the twomet in the Oval Officeto call for a ""smooth"" transfer of power when Trump returns to the White House in January.
The two presidents, seated by a roaring fire, shook hands in front of reporters and news cameras on Nov. 13.
""Politics is tough, and it's, in many cases, not a very nice world but it is a nice world today,"" Trump said at the time. ""And I appreciate it very much. A transition that's so smooth, it'll be as smooth as it can get, and I very much appreciate that, Joe.""
ABC News' Lalee Ibssa, Kelsey Walsh and Soo Rin Kim contributed to this report.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	2796	
abcnews	Washington DC reacts to President Biden pardoning son Hunter in shock decision	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/president-biden-pardons-son-hunter-biden-daughter-ashley/story?id=116360693	"Both sides of the aisle reacted after the pardon was issued Sunday.
Reactions started coming through shortly after the announcement on Sunday evening that President Joe Biden had pardoned his son, Hunter Biden, for his tax evasion andfederal gun charges.
Areversal for the president, the pardon came about two weeks before his son was scheduled for sentencing in both cases: on Dec. 12 on the gun-related charges in Delaware, and on Dec. 16 on the tax charges in California.
Hunter Biden first released a statement directly after the pardon was issued, saying in part, ""I will never take the clemency I have been given today for granted and will devote the life I have rebuilt to helping those who are still sick and suffering.¡¨
Shortly afterward, his sister, Ashley Biden, posted to her storieson Instagram: ¡§Thank you, Dad! What they have tried to do to my brother is cruel + politically motivated. Period. Proud Sister + Daughter!¡¨
However, there was a less receptive response from Washington, D.C.
House Oversight Committee Chairman James Comer, Republican of Kentucky, said President Biden ""lied from start to finish"" about the circumstances surrounding his son's case.
In a statement on Sunday, he said, ""Joe Biden has lied from start to finish about his family¡¦s corrupt influence peddling activities. Not only has he falsely claimed that he never met with his son¡¦s foreign business associates and that his son did nothing wrong, but he also lied when he said he would not pardon Hunter Biden.""
""The charges Hunter faced were just the tip of the iceberg in the blatant corruption that President Biden and the Biden Crime Family have lied about to the American people,"" he added. ""It¡¦s unfortunate that, rather than come clean about their decades of wrongdoing, President Biden and his family continue to do everything they can to avoid accountability.""
And Judiciary Chairman Jim Jordanposted on X: ¡§Democrats said there was nothing to our impeachment inquiry. If that¡¦s the case, why did Joe Biden just issue Hunter Biden a pardon for the very things we were inquiring about?¡¨
President-elect Donald Trump addressed the pardon by bringing up those who had been arrested for storming the Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021 -- whom he referred to as ""J-6 Hostages.""
""Does the Pardon given by Joe to Hunter include the J-6 Hostages, who have now been imprisoned for years? Such an abuse and miscarriage of Justice!"" he posted to Truth Social.
Steven Cheung, the spokesperson for President-elect Donald Trump, also responded indirectly, providing a statement to ABC News that said the circumstances go to show that the Department of Justice had weaponized the justice system -- before adding that Trump intends to fix that during his second term in the White House.
¡§The failed witch hunts against President Trump have proven that the Democrat-controlled DOJ and other radical prosecutors are guilty of weaponizing the justice system,"" the statement said.
""That system of justice must be fixed and due process must be restored for all Americans, which is exactly what President Trump will do as he returns to the White House with an overwhelming mandate from the American people,"" it continued.
House Democratic Rep. Greg Stanton of Arizona said in apost on Xthat he disagrees with President Biden's decision to pardon Hunter Biden, making him the first House Democrat to publicly disagree with the president on the decision.
He wrote, ""I respect President Biden, but I think he got this one wrong.""
""This wasn¡¦t a politically-motivated prosecution. Hunter committed felonies, and was convicted by a jury of his peers,"" Stanton added.
Spokespersons for both Special Counsel David Weiss and Attorney General Merrick Garland did not have an immediate response to the pardon of Hunter Biden when reached by ABC News on Sunday.
This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3923	
abcnews	Emotional Bidens commemorate World AIDS Day at the White House	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/emotional-bidens-commemorate-world-aids-day-white-house/story?id=116356086	"The president said the event showed the U.S. is united in fighting HIV/AIDS.
President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden held an emotional commemoration for World AIDS Day at the White House on Sunday, expressing empathy with families who have lost loved ones and telling them they ¡§felt a special obligation to use this sacred place to ensure everyone is seen.¡¨
Behind the Bidens, a giant red ribbon hung on the South Portico and the AIDS Memorial Quilt was placed across the South Lawn. The quilt now with 50,000 panels with 110,000 names and weighs 54 tons. This was the first time it has beendisplayed on the lawn.
¡§Like the first threads of this quiltÿ this movement is fully woven into the fabric and history of America,¡¨ Biden said. ¡§Shining a light on the memory and the legacy of all the sisters and brothers, sons and daughters, husbands and wives, moms and dads, partners and friends who have lost, we've lost to this terrible disease.¡¨
The president and first lady were emotional throughout the event, with the president appearing to occasionally wipe tears from his face during Jill Biden¡¦s remarks and the first lady choking up as she spoke in front of survivors, their families and advocates.
¡§And though we are strangers, we know untellable truths about one another that we will spend the rest of our lives longing for a face that's gone forever,¡¨ Jill Biden said, having to pause for a moment. ¡§And that when they left our world, they took a light inside us with them.¡¨
¡§As I look at this beautiful quilt with its bright colors, the names in big block letters, renderings of lives and loves, I see it as a mom, and I think of the mothers who stitched their pain into a patchworked panel so the world would remember their child not as a victim of a vicious disease, but as a son who had played in the high school jazz band, as a child, who grew up to proudly serve our nation in uniform, as the daughter whose favorite holiday was Christmas,¡¨ she continued.
President Biden is no stranger to grief and often references his own loss during similar events. On Sunday he acknowledged that though the ceremony was a celebration of those lives lost, ¡§they bring back all the memories.¡¨
¡§They're hard. It's not easy. It's important, but it's not easy.¡¨
He said the White House ceremony sends a ¡§clear message¡¨ to the world that the U.S. stands united in the fight against the epidemic.
¡§Together, we honor the spirit of resilience and the extraordinary strength of people, families and communities affected by HIV/AIDS. Including nearly 40 million people living with HIV around the world today,¡¨ he said.
Biden pointed out the ¡§stigma of misinformation¡¨ and failures of the U.S. government to act when the epidemic was raging, saying it ¡§compounded pain and trauma for a community watching a generation of loved ones and friends perish.¡¨
¡§It was horribly, horribly wrong,¡¨ he said.
Biden highlighted the progress that¡¦s been made under his administration in the fight against HIV/AIDS and fighting the stigma of discrimination against the HIV community. He also called attention to Dr. Anthony Fauci, who attended the event, for his leading efforts to advance the fight over his career.
As he prepared toleave for Africain the evening, Biden credited former President George W. Bush for creating PEPFAR, the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, which has improved outcomes for people living with HIV on the African continent and saved more than 26 million lives globally.
Biden said he plans to call on Congress to pass a five-year PEPFAR reauthorization to sustain this progress before he leaves office in January.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3681	
abcnews	Trump picks daughter Tiffany's father-in-law Massad Boulos as senior Mideast adviser	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-picks-daughter-tiffanys-father-law-massad-boulos/story?id=116351766	"It was the second straight day Trump picked a family member for his team.
For the second time in as many days, President-elect Donald Trump announced he is picking another family member for his administration, choosing his daughter Tiffany Trump's father-in-law as asenior Middle East advisera day after picking son-in-law Jared Kushner's dad to serve as ambassador to France.
Billionaire businessman Massad Boulos, father of Trump's son-in-law Michael Boulos, will serve as White House senior adviser on Arab and Middle East affairs, Trumpannouncedon his Truth Social media platform. Born in Lebanon, Massad Boulos runs Nigeria-based Boulos Enterprises, which produces and distributes mechanical equipment and motorcycles.
""Massad is an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world, with extensive experience on the International scene,"" Trump wrote. ""He has been a longtime proponent of Republican and Conservative values, an asset to my Campaign, and was instrumental in building tremendous new coalitions with the Arab American Community.""
Trump added, ""Massad is a dealmaker, and an unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East. He will be a strong advocate for the United States, and its interests, and I am pleased to have him on our team.""
During the final stretch of Trump's victorious presidential campaign, Boulos appeared with him at campaign stops in Dearborn, Michigan, an Arab American stronghold, and was praised by Trump for helping him flip Michigan from a blue to a red state.
¡§Obviously the No. 1 point that is of high priority within the Arab American community is the current war in the Middle East,"" Boulos toldThe Associated Press in June. ""And the question is, who can bring peace and who is bringing war? And they know the answer to that.""
In September, Boulos met with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly, theNew York Times reported. Palestinian officials told the Times the meeting was part of an outreach effort to Trump, but Boulos told the newspaper that it was ""purely personal"" and that he didn't inform Trump about it before or after.
Boulos also has close contacts in the Lebanon political world and made an unsuccessful run in 2018 for a seat in Lebanon's Parliament.
As a young man, Boulos moved to Texas, where he obtained a doctorate in jurisprudence at the University of Houston. After earning his law degree, he joined his family¡¦s business, rising to CEO.
Michael Boulos and Tiffany Trump, the daughter of Trump and his second wife, Marla Maples, were married in November 2022 at Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach, Florida. While campaigning in Detroit in October, Donald Trump announced the couple was expecting their first child.
The announcement of Boulos being picked as a White House senior adviser came a day after Trump picked billionaire real estate developer Charles Kushner to serve as ambassador to France. Kushner is the father of Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner, who served as a senior White House adviser during Trump's first term as president.
Jared Kushner is married to Trump¡¦s eldest daughter, Ivanka.
Charles Kushner pleaded guilty in March 2005 to assisting in the filing of false tax returns, retaliating against a cooperating witness and making false statements to the Federal Election Commission. He was sentenced to two years in prison.
Trump granted Kushner a pardon in December 2020.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3500	
abcnews	Two more Democrats join race for Democratic National Committee chair	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/democrats-join-race-democratic-national-committee-chair/story?id=116353329	"Wisconsin Dem chair and former Senate candidate from Maryland join the field.
Two more Democrats on Sunday announced their intentions to run for Democratic National Committee chair.
Ben Wikler, chairman of the Democratic Party of Wisconsin since 2019, said in avideoannouncing his candidacy, ¡§Today, the country we love needs the Democratic Party to be stronger. To unite. To fight. And to win.¡¨
And in a letter to DNC members, Robert Houton, a onetime U.S. Senate candidate from Maryland, launched his bid, saying he wanted to ¡§lead and grow our Democratic party to champion electoral and transformative, legacy victories in 2025, 2026, 2027, 2028, and beyond.¡¨
They join a growing field with New York state Sen.James Skoufis, who announced his candidacy on Saturday, Martin O'Malley, the former Maryland governor who has served as commissioner of the Social Security Administration since December 2023, and Ken Martin, a vice chairman of the DNC who also leads the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party.
Jaime Harrison, the current chairman, is not seeking a second term.
In an interview with CNN after announcing his candidacy, Wikler said he¡¦s running to stop Republicans from ¡§ripping this country apart and ripping off working people.¡¨
Asked by CNN what he believes is the biggest problem Democrats currently face, Wikler suggested voters don¡¦t believe that Democrats have their backs.
""The central problem is that voters, many voters, have internalized this idea that Democrats are not on their side,¡¨ he said. ¡§They're not fighting for working families every day. They have other agendas. That is the Republicans¡¦ line of attack.""
Wikler and Martin are the front-runners.Elections are on Feb. 1at the party¡¦s annual winter meeting at National Harbor, Maryland.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	1817	
abcnews	"North Carolina was a ¡¥bright spot¡¦ for Democrats, governor-elect says"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/north-carolina-bright-spot-democrats-governor-elect/story?id=116341521	"Stein tells ¡§This Week¡¨ that Harris was hindered by a ¡§tough national mood.¡¨
After prevailing in a state that went for Republican Donald Trump, Democratic Gov.-elect Josh Stein said that his service as North Carolina's attorney general gave voters confidence and called the Tar Heel state a ""bright spot"" for Democrats on election night.
Stein told ABC's ""This Week"" co-anchor Jonathan Karl that Kamala Harris ran a ""strong campaign,"" but was hindered by a condensed timeline and ""tough national mood.""
""It was an unfortunate night for Democrats across this country, but North Carolina was a bright spot,"" Stein said. "" And we're proud of what we accomplished here.""
Fresh off his gubernatorial victory, Stein pointed to Democrats winning North Carolina's secretary of state and attorney general races. As North Carolina's current attorney general, he defeated Republican Lt. Gov. Mark Robinson, whose campaign was plagued byallegationsof past racist, homophobic and anti-Semitic comments.
Stein outperformed Harris in North Carolina,winning 55% of the vote to Harris' 48%. In the statehouse, Democrats won enough seats to stave off a Republican supermajority. Steinheavily outraisedhis opponent and used social media to highlight Robinson's incendiary remarks.
While Democrats have won eight of the last nine gubernatorial races in the Tar Heel state,Barack Obamawas the last Democrat to take North Carolina in 2008.
Asked to explain his swing state victory, Stein said his campaign was about ""fighting for every person.""
""Voters had a really clear choice,"" said Stein. ""Our vision was positive and forward-looking.""
He pointed to a focus on public safety, education and personal freedoms, including voting rights and reproductive rights. Stein also said his position as attorney general lent a familiarity with voters.
""I think the fact that I had a track record of delivering for the people of North Carolina as their attorney general helped give them confidence in knowing that I wasn't just speaking words, but that I would work hard every day to deliver,"" Stein said.
Stein has promised to govern in a bipartisan way. Inhis victory speech, he spoke about the importance of working across the aisle since ""no person or party has a monopoly on good ideas.""
He spoke aboutHurricane Helenerecovery efforts across North Carolina andhis recent visitto Washington to advocate for relief funding alongside Republican legislators. Stein said he is ""eager"" to work with the Trump administration to provide relief.
Pressed on his biggest fear in a second Trump term, Stein pointed to the president-elect's selection of hardlinerKash Patelto lead the FBI. Patel is one of Trump's fiercest defenders and has said he would turn the FBI into a museum for the ""Deep State.""
""I want somebody who respects the rule of law,"" Stein said. ""And [Patel's] nomination for the FBI does not give me confidence that that's a top priority,""
Asked about Trump's promise of mass deportations, Stein said that it's ""not a priority"" to deport law-abiding citizens.
""They are instrumental to our communities, they are instrumental to our economy,"" he said.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3176	
abcnews	"GOP senator praises current FBI Director Christopher Wray, calls Putin a 'tyrant'"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/gop-senator-praises-current-fbi-director-christopher-wray/story?id=116341518	"Rounds has ¡§no complaints¡¨ about the FBI director that Trump wants to fire.
Republican Sen. Mike Rounds emphasized his support for current FBI Director Christopher Wray after President-elect Donald Trump announced he intended to nominate loyalist Kash Patel for the department's top job.
¡§I think the president picked a very good man to be the director of the FBI when he did that in his first term,¡¨ Rounds told ABC ""This Week"" co-anchor Jonathan Karl about Wray. ¡§When we meet with him behind closed doors, I've had no objections to the way that he's handled himself, and so I don't have any complaints about the way that he's done his job right now.¡¨
However, Rounds reiterated the president-elect¡¦s right to select his Cabinet and Trump's selection of Patel is not surprising.
¡§It doesn't surprise me that he will pick people that he believes are very loyal to himself, and that's been a part of the process,¡¨ Rounds said. ¡§Every president wants people that are loyal to themselves.¡¨
In his book ""Government Gangsters,"" Patel calls for a ""comprehensive housecleaning"" of the Justice Department and an eradication of ""government tyranny"" within the FBI, promising to fire and prosecute officials. Patel has also promoted conspiracy theories about the ¡§Deep State¡¨ and vehemently defended Jan. 6 rioters.
FBI directors are nominated and confirmed to serve 10-year terms. After being nominated by Trump, Wray's term began in August 2017. Months earlier, Trump had fired James Comey, who was still less than four years into his tenure as director. Trump did not mention Wray in his Truth Social post announcing Patel for director, but unless Wray resigns the position, Trump will have to fire him to nominate a new leader.
""The president has the right to make nominations, but normally these are for a 10-year term,"" Rounds explained. ""We'll see what his process is and whether he actually makes that nomination.""
Rounds reiterated that although the Senate will give Trump the ¡§benefit of the doubt,¡¨ it will uphold its ¡§constitutional role.¡¨
""We still go through a process, and that process includes advice and consent, which, for the Senate, means advice or consent sometimes,"" Rounds promised.
Turning to the global stage, Rounds ¡X a staunch supporter of the U.S. aiding Ukraine in its war against Russia ¡X called Russian President Vladimir Putin a ¡§tyrant¡¨ and suggested that negotiating with him may be futile.
¡§I think Mr. Putin is a tyrant. I think dealing with him is going to be extremely difficult,¡¨ Rounds said, expressing hope for Trump to succeed but recognizing that this would present a challenge for ¡§any president.¡¨
¡§I want to see Ukraine with its sovereignty protected,¡¨ he said. ¡§I just think it's going to be a major, major task to overcome what Putin is offering¡¨ on Ukraine giving up territory to end the war.
He added that you cannot trust ¡§a guy that doesn't honor their word,¡¨ which he says Putin has done.
In regard to Trump¡¦s promise to slap 25% tariffs on all imports from Canada and Mexico, Rounds said the president-elect is a ¡§successful businessman"" who ""really does believe that tariffs can be a great tool.""
¡§He thinks that by suggesting these tariffs right now, he's going to get the attention of the leaders in the other countries,¡¨ Rounds said, adding that Trump believes the tariffs will ¡§fix our borders.¡¨
However, Rounds also recognized the potential impact tariffs could have on his constituents, particularly South Dakota farmers who could be affected by the tariffs.
In 2018,Chinaretaliated against Trump¡¦s tariffs by implementing its own on U.S. soybean exports that hurt U.S. farmers.
¡§Look, we're an [agricultural] state. And when I talk to my farmers and to my ranchers about that, they're concerned about retaliation,¡¨ Rounds said, though he added that they understand the importance of tariffs, especially when it comes to the border.
¡§If we've got to have tariffs, so be it,¡¨ he said. ¡§We¡¦re going to support the president.¡¨
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	4021	
abcnews	"Biden team wants to finish strong on Ukraine, Gaza"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/biden-team-finish-strong-ukraine-gaza/story?id=116341514	"Sullivan: Biden's team will ""do everything in our power"" in its final 50 days.
National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said Sunday that President Joe Biden is looking to make as much progress as possible on foreign policy before he leaves office next month.
In an interview with ""This Week"" co-anchor Jonathan Karl, Sullivan said that Biden is hoping to surge aid to Ukraine and move forward with ceasefire talks betweenIsraeland Hamas with his time left in office. Both conflicts have dogged the administration, with Ukraine struggling to retake territory it lost to Russia and little progress in Gaza despite a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon.
""We are going to do everything in our power for these 50 days to get Ukraine all the tools we possibly can to strengthen their position on the battlefield so that they'll be stronger at the negotiating table. And President Biden directed me to oversee a massive surge in the military equipment that we are delivering to Ukraine so that we have spent every dollar that Congress has appropriated to us by the time that President Biden leaves office,"" Sullivan said.
When pressed on clinching a deal in Gaza and possibly broader diplomatic breakthroughs between Israel and Arab countries like Saudi Arabia, Sullivan said, ""The first step is getting the ceasefire and hostage deal. If we can get that into effect, then the possibilities for a broader diplomatic initiative in the region along the lines that you just described really open up, and we will use every day we have in office to try to generate as much progress towards that end as possible.""
Making progress on both fronts remains a tall order for multiple reasons. The U.S. has vowed to not make any decisions about Ukraine without Kyiv's input and the Israeli government has appeared reluctant to wind down fighting in Gaza.
And with President-elect Donald Trump entering office, foreign policy priorities will undoubtedly be shaken up. Trump is believed to be unlikely to pressure Israel to scale back its military operations in Gaza, and he has appeared skeptical of sending aid to Ukraine at the same pace the Biden administration has.
""I've encouraged the Ukrainian team to engage the incoming team as well as to engage all of our allies and partners, because, again, on Jan. 21, the war in Ukraine doesn't just go away. Obviously, the new team will have its own policy, its own approach, and I can't speak to that, but what I can do is make sure that we put Ukraine in the best possible position when we hand off the baton,"" Sullivan said, referencing the day after Trump takes office.
Still, Sullivan debunked a report suggesting that the administration is open to returning nuclear weapons to Ukraine.
""That is not under consideration. No. What we are doing is surging various conventional capacities to Ukraine so that they can effectively defend themselves and take the fight to the Russians, not nuclear capability,"" he told Karl.
Sullivan did say, however, that the transition is going smoothly.
""We got a lot of work to do, and frankly, we're going to try to do that also in a way where we have a smooth transition with the incoming Trump team. And I have to say that I've been gratified so far by the coordination I've been able to have with the incoming Trump team. They seem focused also on a smooth transition, because they want to be able to hit the ground running,"" he told Karl.
After Trump takes office, however, things become less clear.
Trump on Saturdaytapped Kash Patel, a loyalist and vocal critic of the Justice Department, as his pick to lead the FBI. Patel has railed against the so-called ""Deep State,"" naming Sullivan as a member.
When pressed on if that pick concerns him, Sullivan dodged.
""I'm not going to speak to President-elect Trump's nominees. I'll let him and his transition team speak to that,"" Sullivan said.
""We inherited an FBI director who actually had been appointed by President Trump, Director Chris Wray, who has continued to serve in that role through the four years of the Biden administration, and served with distinction, served entirely insulated from politics where the partisan preferences of the current sitting president of the United States. This is a good, deep, bipartisan tradition that President Biden adhered to.""
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	4347	
abcnews	"Biden¡¦s Angola visit to focus on US investments, partnerships in Africa"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/bidens-angola-visit-focus-us-investments-regional-partnerships/story?id=116325701	"Biden will become the first sitting president to visit Angola.
President Joe Biden will become the first sitting president to visit Angola this week as he aims to deepen the relationship between the two countries and highlight recent investments as an alternative to the growing support fromChina.
Biden's visit also marks the first visit to Africa of a U.S. president since then-President Barack Obama went to Kenya and Ethiopia in July 2015.
His trip, scheduled for Dec. 2 through Dec. 4, will begin with a bilateral meeting with Angolan President Jo_o Louren_o in the capital of Luanda, according to a senior administration official previewing the trip. They last met in December 2023 in the Oval Office.
Biden will deliver remarks in Luanda laying out ""both our shared history and highlight the growth and enduring strength of our relationships in Angola and across the continent,"" according to the official.
He will also announce new deliverables related to global health security, agribusiness, security cooperation and preserving Angola's cultural heritage.
In 2022, the United States pledged to invest $55 billion in Africa over three years, and a senior administration official said 80% of that commitment has already been met.
""Over the last couple of years, in Angola, through U.S. government investment, there has been an added more telecommunications, more people are getting connected to 3G and now building out 5G networks, as well as building out renewable energy,"" the official said. ""In fact, the U.S. has approved financing through [the Export-Import Bank] of nearly $2.5 billion of renewable energy projects that will be able to take countries from energy deficit to energy exporters to their neighbors.""
The Biden administration has been trying to counter China's growing influence in Africa and sizable commitments of their own, including $50 billion in support announced in September that would go toward infrastructure and at least 1 million jobs.
The official added that ""we don't think it's a bad thing"" for China to invest in Africa but warned about what could happen in the long run with that support, opposed to ""meaningful"" investments offered by the U.S.
""If it means that at the end of a few years of investment, the communities that live in the area of the investment have not seen any increase in GDP, that they've not seen benefits of their lives in it, that it has not lifted the lives of the communities, if it means that the government is going to be living under crushing debt for generations to come ÿ then the government's going to have to make the decision whether that's the alternative they want,"" the official said.
""What we have heard repeatedly over years is that people want to have more -- people in Africa want to have more alternatives for investment, not less. But if they don't have the alternative, they are forced to go with the with the one investment they have.""
Biden is squeezing in this trip with less than two months to go before leaving office after promising to visit back in 2022. Senior administration officials said he has wanted to make this trip for a long time. While that was being worked on, over 20 Cabinet-level and senior officials traveled to the continent in the past two years, including Vice President Kamala Harris in March of 2023.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3358	
abcnews	Trump names longtime ally Kash Patel to lead FBI	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-hell-fire-fbi-director-christopher-wray-replace/story?id=116342099	"The appointment must be approved by the Senate.
President-elect Donald Trump announced Saturday that he plans on firing FBI director Christopher Wray and replacing him with longtime ally Kash Patel.
The appointment must be approved by the Senate.
Patel has been a staunch supporter of Trump for years and served in his first administration under a number of roles. He has vocally defended many Jan. 6 rioters who were charged for their actions that day.
Patel has said he would target journalists, former senior FBI and Department of Justice officials and turn the FBI into a museum for the ""deep state"" on Day 1.
""This FBI will end the growing crime epidemic in America, dismantle the migrant criminal gangs, and stop the evil scourge of human and drug trafficking across the Border,"" Trump said in a Truth Social post, announcing his pick.
Patel did not immediately comment about Trump's announcement. Trump can not make personnel changes to the FBI until he is sworn in.
Wray, the current agency director, was appointed in 2017 after Trump fired Director James Comey, less than four years into his 10-year term. Trump claimed Comey ""wasn't doing a good job.""
In a statement to ABC News, the FBI said ""Every day, the men and women of the FBI continue to work to protect Americans from a growing array of threats. Director Wray's focus remains on the men and women of the FBI, the people we do the work with, and the people we do the work for.""
Patel, 44, grew up in Long Island and earned a law degree from Pace University Law School. He first served as a public defender in Miami for nine years before moving to Washington, D.C., in 2013 to work at the Justice Department¡¦s National Security Division.
Patel left the Justice Department in 2017 claiming frustration with the agency, especially with the handling of the 2012 terrorist attacks in Benghazi, Libya, that killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans.
He went on to lead the ¡§Russia Gate¡¨ investigation for House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, with a promise from Nunes that after the investigation he would help Patel get a job at the National Security Council in the White House.
As the self-described ¡§lead investigator of the Russia Gate hoax,¡¨ Patel authored the so-called ¡§Nunes memo¡¨ alleging that the FBI improperly eavesdropped on former Trump adviser Carter Page.
A major report by the Justice Department's inspector general released in late 2019 found that the FBI wasnot impacted by political biaswhen it opened the investigation -- though it outlined what it called ""serious performance failures"" on the part of agents as they vetted information from sources and sought surveillance warrants against Page.
In February 2019, Patel became deputy assistant to the president and senior director for counterterrorism on the White House¡¦s National Security Council.
In February 2020, Patel took on a ¡§temporary duty assignment¡¨ as deputy to the newly installed acting director of national intelligence. That November, after Trump lost the election, Patel was named chief of staff for the Defense Department, despite some critics saying he was unqualified for the role.
After Trump left the White House, Patel held a number of jobs including hosting shows on far-right media outlets.
In Patel's book, ""Government Gangsters,"" which Trump said would serve as a ""blueprint"" for his next administration, Patel called for a ""comprehensive housecleaning"" of the Justice Department. He also promoted an eradication of ""government tyranny"" within the FBI by firing ""the top ranks"" and prosecuting ""to the fullest extent of the law"" anyone who ""in any way abused their authority for political ends.""
""[T]he FBI has become so thoroughly compromised that it will remain a threat to the people unless drastic measures are taken,"" Patel claimed in his book. Democrats ""should be very afraid,"" Patel wrote.
He alleged that there were ""abuses of prosecutorial discretion"" by the Justice Department in declining to charge Hillary Clinton for allegedly compromising classified information through her use of a private email server, and in declining to charge President Joe Biden's son, Hunter Biden, for what Patel describes as influence-peddling. At the same time, he argued the department indicted Trump ally Steve Bannon over his refusal to comply with a subpoena from the House panel investigating the Jan. 6, 2021, attack on the U.S. Capitol and also charging so many of the Trump supporters who were at the Capitol that day.
On a podcast two months ago, Patel said anyone involved in ""Russiagate"" should be stripped of their security clearances.
According to Patel, there is a ""massive"" list of such government officials, from the FBI and Justice Department to the CIA and U.S. military.
""They all still have clearances,"" including those who left government for private sector jobs, so ""everybody"" should lose their clearances, Patel said.
Patel said he has personally ""recommended"" to Trump that the new administration also strip any security clearances still held by the 51 then-former intelligence officials. This includes former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and former CIA director John Brennan, who in October 2020, just weeks before the 2020 presidential election, signed onto a letter dismissing the public release of emails from Hunter Biden's laptop as part of a ""Russian information operation.""
Patel has also come to the defense of Jan. 6 rioters who were charged for their actions.
He¡¦s raised money for Jan. 6 defendants and their families, including by promoting the ¡§J6 Prison Choir,¡¨ featuring Jan. 6 defendants still in jail, and co-producing their fundraising song ¡§Justice for All,¡¨ which Trump played at some of his campaign rallies. And Patel once suggested Jan. 6 was ¡§a free speech movement.¡¨
Patel also became a part of the investigation into Trump¡¦s handling of classified documents at his Mar-a-Lago estate.
After news surfaced that the National Archives found some classified documents in boxes previously stored at Mar-a-Lago, Patel called the news ¡§disinformation¡¨ and insisted he was there when Trump ¡§declassified whole sets of materials in anticipation of leaving government that he thought the American public should have the right to read themselves.¡¨
Four weeks later, Trump named Patel as one of his official representatives to the National Archives, and Patel promised to ¡§march down there"" and ¡§identify every single document that they blocked being declassified at the National Archives, and we are going to start putting that information out.¡¨
Two months later, Patel¡¦s claimed Trump declassifying documents were included in the FBI¡¦s affidavit laying out why the FBI believed a broad search of Trump¡¦s Mar-a-Lago estate was warranted. And Patel was subpoenaed to testify to the grand jury investigating the matter, but at first he refused to answer key questions.
He later returned to the grand jury and answered those questions only after being granted limited-use immunity. He has blasted the entire probe as unlawful overreach by a politically corrupted Justice Department.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	7173	
abcnews	"Trump, Trudeau meet at Mar-a-Lago amid tariff threats"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-trudeau-meet-mar-lago-amid-tariff-threats/story?id=116329095	"Trump has threatened 25% tariffs on goods from Mexico and Canada.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau met with Donald Trump Friday night at the president-elect's Mar-a-Lago resort.
Speaking to reporters outside his hotel in West Palm Beach, Florida, on Saturday morning, Trudeau said his conversation with Trump was ""excellent"" but did not respond to any additional questions.
Trudeau also took toXon Saturday to thank Trump for dinner at Mar-a-Lago and added, ""I look forward to the work we can do together, again.""
Pennsylvania Sen.-elect Dave McCormickposted a photoon X Friday night that showed Trump and Trudeau sitting together at a table in the club at Mar-a-Lago. Also included in the photo are Trump's interior secretary pick, Doug Burgum; his secretary of commerce pick, Howard Lutnick; and Trump's pick for national security adviser, Mike Waltz.
""We discussed many important topics that will require both Countries to work together to address, like the Fentanyl and Drug Crisis that has decimated so many lives as a result of Illegal Immigration, Fair Trade Deals that do not jeopardize American Workers, and the massive Trade Deficit the U.S. has with Canada,"" Trumpposted Saturday afternoonon his social media platform Truth Social. ""Prime Minister Trudeau has made a commitment to work with us to end this terrible devastation of U.S. Families. We also spoke about many other important topics like Energy, Trade, and the Arctic.""
The meeting came after Trump threatened sweeping 25% tariffs on goods from Mexico and Canada until both countries stop what he claims is a flow of drugs and illegal immigrants into the United States.
Trudeau told reporters earlier this week after he and Trump spoke on the phone following the tariff threat that they had a ""good call."" He added that he looks forward to ""lots of great conversations"" with Trump.
The prime minister has cited the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, or UMSCA, negotiations as a sign he believes he can work with Trump on trade and avoid a trade war.
USMCA went into effect in 2020 after it was signed by Trump and was designed to provide mostly duty-free trade among the U.S., Canada and Mexico. Trump's tariff threats could put that deal in jeopardy.
The terms of USMCA allow it to be renegotiated after six years, in 2026, butexperts have told ABC Newsthat the tariff threat may be an effort to move up that negotiation window.
However,some experts toldABC News' Selina Wang and Karen Travers that the threat is not likely to work in a second Trump term because it is ""the same playbook done the second time around. If you're on the football field and you call the same play twice, it's not going to be as effective the second time.""
The tariffs also could significantly raise prices for goods after Trumpran his campaignon lowering too-high inflation.
Trudeau spoke with Trump on Monday, Nov. 25, after Trump had announced the day-one tariffs on Canada and Mexico, as well as on China, the U.S.'s top three trading partners.
""We talked about some of the challenges that we can work on together,"" he told reporters of the call. ""This is a relationship that we know takes a certain amount of working on, and that's what we'll do.""
Trudeau's plane landed at Palm Beach International Airport on Friday ahead of an expected dinner at Mar-a-Lago with the president-elect,according to reports.
-ABC News' Hannah Demissie contributed to this report.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3472	
abcnews	Trump picks Florida sheriff Chad Chronister for DEA administrator	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-nominates-hillsborough-county-sheriff-chad-chronister-dea/story?id=116342276	"Chad Chronister has served the Tampa, Florida, area for over 30 years.
President-electDonald Trumpannounced he will nominate Hillsborough County Sheriff Chad Chronister to lead the Drug Enforcement Administration.
In a post on Truth Social on Saturday, Trump said that Chronister -- who has served the Tampa, Florida, area for over 32 years -- will work with his attorney general selection,Pam Bondi, to help secure the U.S.-Mexico Border.
The DEA administrator is a Senate-confirmed position.
""As DEA Administrator, Chad will work with our great Attorney General, Pam Bondi, to secure the Border, stop the flow of Fentanyl, and other Illegal Drugs, across the Southern Border, and SAVE LIVES,"" Trump wrote.
Chronister was appointed to lead the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office by then-Florida Gov. Rick Scott in 2017 and has been twice reelected by voters.
He holds a bachelor's and master's degree in science in criminal justice from St. Leo University and is a graduate of the FBI National Academy's 260th session.
Chronister is married to Nikki DeBartolo and has two sons.
Florida Attorney General Ashley Moody took toXon Saturday to congratulate Chronister on the nomination and praise his experience in fighting on the ""frontlines"" of the opioid crisis.
""Chad has fought on the frontlines of the opioid crisis, and I know his leadership and decades of experience will be invaluable as we work to combat the flow of Mexican fentanyl into our county,"" Moody wrote.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	1519	
abcnews	"Third candidate enters DNC chair race, setting up tight contest"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/james-skoufis-announces-bid-lead-dnc-vie-chairmanship/story?id=116337908	"¡§I may be an outsider, but I know how to win,¡¨ the New York state senator said.
New Yorkstate Sen. James Skoufis announced his long-shot bid for chairman of the Democratic National Committee on X on Saturday.
Skoufis, who paints himself as an outsider, underdog and part of a new generation, said he intends to point to his successful record in his district that favors President-elect Donald Trump.
Arguing for a new script,Skoufis said, ""Voters have spoken, and we need to listen, not lecture. We need to be strong fighters again.""
""I may be an outsider, but I know how to win,"" he continued. ""I will throw out the DNC's stale, Beltway-centered playbook so that we rebuild, stop ceding ground to Republicans and start winning again -- everywhere. Not just the party, but the country depends on it. We can win this fight together.""
Skoufis, who has served in the New York legislature since 2013, joins the field with Martin O'Malley, the formerMarylandgovernor who has served as commissioner of the Social Security Administration since December 2023, and Ken Martin, a vice chairman of the DNC who also leads the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party. Jaime Harrison, the current chairman, is not seeking a second term.
The election of a new DNC chairwill take placeat the party's winter meeting in National Harbor, Maryland, on Feb. 1, 2025. Harrison announced earlier this week that there will be four forums for candidates to make their cases to DNC members, who will also select a vice chair, treasurer, secretary and national finance chair, after the party lost the presidency and couldn't obtain a majority in either the Senate or the House in the 2024 elections.
""As my time as Chair comes to a close and we prepare to undertake the critical work of holding the Trump Administration and Republican Party accountable for their extremism and false promises, we are beginning to lay out the process for upcoming DNC officer elections in the New Year,"" Harrison saidin a statement. ""The DNC is committed to running a transparent, equitable, and impartial election for the next generation of leadership to guide the party forward.""
The DNC's Rules and Bylaws Committee will meet on Dec. 12 to determine the Rules of Procedure for the contest, including what will be necessary to gain access to the ballot. In 2021, candidates needed the signatures of 40 DNC members, which is expected to hold for the 2025 race.
The 448 DNC members voting at the winter meeting includes 200 state-elected members from 57 states, territories and Democrats Abroad; members representing 16 affiliate groups; and 73 at-large members elected by the DNC, ABC Newspreviously reported.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	2712	
abcnews	Democratic members of Congress get bomb threats on Thanksgiving	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/democratic-members-congress-bomb-threats-thanksgiving/story?id=116309053	"The threats follow some to Trump's Cabinet selections earlier in the week.
President Joe Biden, asked on Friday about recent bomb threats and swatting aimed at Democratic lawmakers and Trump Cabinet picks, said, ""we're working that hard with the FBI.""
Biden spoke to reporters while shopping in downtown Nantucket where he and his family are spending the holiday weekend.
The homes of multiple Democratic members of Congress in Connecticut were targeted by bomb threats on Thanksgiving Day.
Reps. Joe Courtney, Jahana Hayes, Jim Himes and John Larson all said their homes were targeted on Thursday.
""This morning, I was notified of a bomb threat targeting my home where I was celebrating Thanksgiving with my family,"" Himes said in a statement. ""Thankfully, after a swift and thorough response from the United States Capitol Police, the Greenwich Police Department and the Stamford Police Department, no evidence of a bomb was found.""
Hayes said in a statement she was notified by local police that it received a threatening email stating a pipe bomb had been placed in her mailbox at home. Police did not find any evidence of a pipe bomb in his mailbox and said there's no place for political violence in the country.
""State police, U.S. Capitol Police, and the Sergeant at Arms were immediately notified. The Wolcott Police Department and State Police responded and no bomb or explosive materials were discovered and the scene was cleared. At this time the investigation is ongoing. I thank law enforcement for their swift attention to this matter, their actions demonstrate there is no place in our country for political violence.""
Local outlets in Connecticut reported that Larson and Courtney have received similar threats. ABC News has reached out for comment. A spokesperson for Connecticut Democrat Sen. Chris Murphy said his office also was targeted by a bomb threat.
Rhode Island Rep. Seth Magaziner released a statement on X on Friday that he was also a target of a bomb threat at his home in Rhode Island. Police found there was no evidence of a bomb.
""I was recently notified of a bomb threat targeting me and my family at our home. We are safe and there was no evidence of a bomb on the property. We would like to extend our deepest gratitude to the Providence Police Department for their effective response.""
House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y., said in a statement on Friday any threats of violence were ""unacceptable.""
""Yesterday, during Thanksgiving celebrations, several Democratic Members of Congress, their families and law enforcement officials were targeted with violent threats,"" Jeffries said. ""These incidents ranged from detailed threats of a pipe bomb placed in mailboxes to swatting, all signed with 'MAGA' at the conclusion of the message. Thanks to the swift reaction from law enforcement, no devices were found and Members of Congress and their families were kept safe on the holiday.""
""House Democrats will not be deterred or intimidated from serving the people by violent threats. We have been in close communication with the Sergeant at Arms office and it is imperative that Congress provide maximum protection for all Members and their families moving forward,"" Jeffries added.
Rhode Island Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse was also the target of a bomb threat, according to a spokesperson.
¡§Senator Whitehouse received a similar bomb threat to the ones made against other Democrats on Thanksgiving, and he is grateful for the quick all-clear response by the Newport Police,¡¨ the spokesperson said.
Threats against multiple members of Connecticut congressional delegations come following several of Trump's Cabinet picksreceiving threats, including Rep. Elise Stefanik, former Rep. Lee Zeldin, and Pete Hegseth.
It's unclear, though, if the threats against some of Trump's Cabinet picks are connected to the threats against many of Connecticut's congressional delegation.
ABC News' Justin Ryan Gomez and Caleigh Bartash contributed to this report.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	4031	
abcnews	Trump says US troops should be used to go after 'radical left.' Can he do that?	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/could-trump-use-military-go-after-radical-left/story?id=114806253	"The military isn't supposed to police Americans, but there are exceptions.
Former President Donald Trump saysactive-duty or National Guard troops could be usedto go after ""radical left lunatics"" to handle any Election Day chaos, warning that the bigger problem facing the United States isn't a foreign enemy but ""the people from within.""
The suggestion of using military force following a political election is hypothetical, considering Trump won't have command of U.S. troops in November. If he wins the election, Trump wouldn't gain control of the armed forces until mid-January following the inauguration.
But deploying the military within U.S. borders is a suggestion Trump has made before, including the idea that the military could police the southern border and help deport an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the United States.
""I think the bigger problem are the people from within,"" Trump told Fox News' ""Sunday Morning Futures.""
""We have some very bad people. We have some sick people, radical left lunatics... And it should be very easily handled by, if necessary, by National Guard or really necessary by the military, because they can't let that happen,"" he said.
So, can a president use U.S. troops to police Americans and quash political protests?
Many of Trump's supporters say yes, citing a 200-year-old law meant to curb rebellions. The Insurrection Act of 1807 was used during the Civil War and throughout the 1960s to enforce civil rights laws.
Legal experts are now warning the law is dangerously vague and ripe for abuse.
Here's what to know about the use of military power on U.S. soil:
The 1878 Posse Comitatus Act mostly prohibits active-duty military troops from carrying out law enforcement duties inside the United States.
The idea behind the law is that any president -- as commander in chief of U.S. forces -- shouldn't be allowed to use federal military might against its own citizens.
But it's a different law that was passed earlier that century that's caught the attention of many Trump supporters.
First enacted in 1807, theInsurrection Actsays the president can call on a militia or the U.S. armed forces if there's been ""any insurrection, domestic violence, unlawful combination or conspiracy"" in a state that ""opposes or obstructs the execution of the laws of the United States or impedes the course of justice under those laws.""
According to theBrennan Center for Justice, the law has been invoked dozens of times throughout history, including by Abraham Lincoln during the Civil War and by Lyndon B. Johnson to quell rioting after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr.
In 1957, President Dwight D. Eisenhower used the law to deploy members of the Army's 101st Airborne Division to escort nine Black students into Little Rock Central High School, after the Arkansas governor used the state's National Guard to prevent the students from entering the school.
More recently, the law was invoked by President George H.W. Bush during the1992 riots inLos Angelesthat followed the trial acquittal of police officers in the Rodney King case. The law was also under consideration in 2005 following Hurricane Katrina, but was not used.
In the days leading up to the Jan. 6 riot, some Trump supporters wanted the president to invoke the Insurrection Act as a justification for far-right militia groups to storm the Capitol and to keep Trump in power despite losing the election.
Trump falsely claimed he won the election, but never invoked the Insurrection Act while in office.
Legal experts have proposed reforms to the Insurrection Act, includingone proposalearlier this year by the American Law Institute.
""There is agreement on both sides of the aisle that the Insurrection Act gives any president too much unchecked power,""Jack Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor and former assistant attorney general in the Bush administration, said last April.
It's unlikely, though, that such a sharply divided Congress would take up the issue any time soon.
There's another law, too, that Trump could try to rely on when it comes to handling illegal immigration -- the 1798 Alien Enemies Act, which allows the president to deport any noncitizen from a country that the U.S. is at war with.
In his interview withTime magazinethis year, Trump didn't cite a legal justification when he said he'd use the National Guard to conduct mass deportations and create detention camps for people living illegally inside the U.S.
In the end, whether any of Trump's proposals are legal would likely be determined by the courts, including federal judges he appointed.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	4640	
abcnews	Trump's 'enemy from within' threat spurs critics' alarm about his authoritarian shift	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trumps-enemy-threat-spurs-critics-alarm-authoritarian-shift/story?id=114816374	"He suggested the military could be used against ""radical left lunatics.""
Donald Trump, in a recent interview, suggested his political opponents are more of a threat to the U.S. than top foreign adversaries such as China and Russia when it comes to the 2024 election.
""I think the bigger problem are the people from within,"" Trumptold Fox Newsanchor Maria Bartiromo. ""We have some very bad people. We have some sick people, radical left lunatics.""
Then he floated the idea of deploying the military against them on American soil, arguing without proof they would be more likely to sow chaos on Nov. 5 than his supporters -- despite what transpired on Jan. 6, 2021.
""I think it should be very easily handled by, if necessary, by National Guard, or if really necessary, by the military, because they can't let that happen,"" Trump added.
The dark comments highlight Trump's increasing bend toward authoritarian rhetoric in his third White House campaign, some political scientists told ABC News.
""It's really classic authoritarian discourse,"" said Steven Levitsky, a Harvard University professor and author of ""How Democracies Die,"" citing examples from 1930s Europe and 1960s Latin America.
""In each of these cases, autocrats used exactly this language: there's an enemy within that's more dangerous than our external enemies and that justifies the use of extra-constitutional measures,"" he said. ""How many times does Trump have to use this rhetoric before we realize that this is not a normal election?""
Trump's ""enemy from within"" comments come after a history of praising authoritarian leaders in public as well asthreats to jail election workers, pledges to take on the civil service and toenact retributionon political enemies if elected -- all of which would significantly stretch the normal limits of executive power.
Vice President Kamala Harris, playing clips of his Fox News comments, painted Trump as ""increasingly unstable and unhinged"" and ""out for unchecked power"" at a Pennsylvania rally on Monday.
""He considers anyone who doesn't support him or who will not bend to his will an enemy of our country. It's a serious issue,"" Harris said. ""He is saying that he would use the military to go after them.""
Harris added, ""This is among the reasons I believe so strongly that a second Trump term would be a huge risk for America and dangerous.""
Meanwhile, some Republicans attempted to downplay Trump's comments.
Ohio Sen. JD Vance, Trump's running mate, said he thought they were related to illegal migrants -- despite Trump specifically shifting his conversation with Bartiromo away from undocumented immigrants or foreign actors toward who he called ""radical left lunatics.""
Virginia Gov. Glenn Youngkin, a Republican, tried to make a similar argument on CNN, in what turned into a tense exchange with host Jake Tapper as Youngkin said he ""didn't believe"" that Trump was talking about using the military against Democrats.
The Trump campaign, too, suggested the former president's comments were related to immigration.
""The Harris-Biden administration has unconscionably abused our refugee and asylum systems, and turned them into programs to import mass numbers of unvetted migrants from the most dangerous countries on earth, at the expense of Christians and other persecuted religious minorities who those programs were intended to help,"" spokesperson Steven Cheung said in a statement to ABC News.
Critics expressed concern not only about Trump's comments but how they're being received by the GOP.
""All the time in authoritarian states you see branding of some faction of the political opposition not as loyal opposition but as enemy opposition,"" said Kim Lane Scheppele, a professor of sociology and international affairs at Princeton University.
Scheppele noted the U.S. has some history with this, such as Republican President Richard Nixon and GOP Wisconsin Sen. Joseph McCarthy's abuses of power to go after perceived political foes.
But there is a key distinction between then and now, she said, in that Nixon and McCarthy were ostracized by their peers.
""This one is really different because Trump's got this mass movement and a set of people who are willing to fight for him,"" Scheppele said.
Levitsky said so long as Republicans are standing by Trump, ""democracy is going to be in trouble.""
""I think the most shocking thing is not what Trump said, but the silence that we hear in response to it, particularly among conservative elites who know better, or who should know better,"" Levitsky said.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	4564	
abcnews	"Democrats, Republicans lining up in new ways in 2024. No one knows what's next."	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/parties-coalitions-changing-election-day/story?id=114793336	"""We can't take voters for granted,"" one Democrat said.
The Democratic and Republican Parties' coalitions are undergoing a seismic change just weeks before Vice President Kamala Harris and former PresidentDonald Trumpface off against each other.
What comes after Election Day is anyone's guess.
Harris is overperforming with seniors, sparking speculation she could even win a demographic that has traditionally leaned Republican. Trump, meanwhile, is eating into Democrats' edge with Black and Hispanic voters, particularly males, eroding a gap that has sunk past GOP presidential contenders.
The 2024 presidential election therefore marks not just a key race to see who leads the country but also one of the first contests under what could be brand new dynamics for the parties. Gone, at least for now, are the days of Republicans banking on the support of older voters -- some of the nation's most reliable ballot punchers -- and Democrats' proclamations that demography is destiny.
""The trend lines are that we can't take voters for granted, neither party can take voters for granted. The coalitions are shifting,"" said Jamal Simmons, a Democratic strategist and former communications director for Harris' vice-presidential office.
Poll after poll suggests voter preferences are altering with little time to suss out what the changes mean.
A CNN/SSRS poll released last month showed Harris leading Trump 50-46 among voters 65 years old and up. No Democratic presidential contender has carried that group since Al Gore in 2000.
Meanwhile, a recent Pew poll showed Trump getting 14% support among Black voters and 38% support among Hispanic voters, compared to 79% and 54% for Harris, respectively. In 2020, President Joe Biden won 87% support from Black voters and 65% support from Latinos.
Those numbers are even starker when divided by gender.
Biden won 79% support from Black men and 59% support among Hispanic men four years ago. In the pew poll, those numbers dropped to 72% support for Harris from Black men and 53% support for her from Hispanic men.
The shifting numbers have the campaigns and outside operatives scrambling to figure out why voter preferences are changing the way they are and how long after Nov. 5 that shift will continue.
Strategists in both parties speculated that seniors defecting to Harris are motivated by temperament and healthcare and are potentially spooked by the Jan. 6, 2021, riot on Capitol Hill and repeated Democratic attacks that Republicans will go after long-coveted entitlement programs.
""One is, is that Democrats have done a lot for seniors. Thirty-five-dollar insulin, $2,000 cap on prescription drugs, negotiating with Medicare, etc., etc. They have an advantage on voters trust them on Social Security and Medicare more than Republicans. And I think that there's a qualitative thing, which is, I don't think for seniors, Trump is their type of Republican. They don't like his behavior,"" said John Anzalone, a Democratic pollster who conducts surveys for both Harris' campaign and AARP.
Black and Latino voters, meanwhile, are thought to be leaning more on economic arguments than racial ones that Democrats had long deployed. Those voters, experts said, have defied traditional thinking of voters with uniquely strong cultural concerns and instead are taking into account similar concerns as white working-class voters.
""What you're seeing is this transformation of things like race and ethnicity, where Black and brown voters are increasingly becoming more Republican for reasons that are clearly not racial,"" said Mike Madrid, a GOP strategist who studies and writes about Latino voting patterns. ""This peculiar interaction between race, economic class and diplomas or college education...are happening in very unique ways that are reshaping the coalitions.""
""The Democratic Party is becoming more white, it's becoming less diverse, and where it's concentrating voters is with college-educated white progressives who are much more insulated to the economy and economic shocks and things like inflation and recessions. Those aren't issues for them. What is, is abortion rights, gun control, marriage equality,"" he said.
Economic frustrations are thought to be particularly motivating among men, with whom Trump is consolidating support.
""Democrats have to talk about issues that are important to men, which are very often economic issues, particularly around aspirations. Men want to be able to take care of their families, be contributors to society, and have the standing that comes with a good job or a good business,"" Simmons said.
Each candidate is putting in work to stem their losses.
Trump has boasted of his plan to end taxes on Social Security income, and Harris is waging a full court media blitz to bring Black men back into the fold, appearing on key radio shows and deploying former President Barack Obama to deliver a stern message to those potentially wary of electing a female president.
The country will only have to wait mere weeks to see if those efforts will pay off -- for this election. Even the most veteran operatives aren't sure what happens from Nov. 6 onward.
Trump has said this will be his last race, and his singular hold on the GOP may not be replicated, meaning the day after he leaves the stage -- whenever that happens -- could mark a watershed political moment.
""I think you're asking the right questions. I just don't have all the right answers,"" GOP pollster Whit Ayres said when asked what comes next. ""I am loathe to try to give a prediction about what a party would look like without a figure that has so dominated the party for the last eight years.""
Some strategists think the dynamics will snap back -- with seniors going back to Republicans and voters of color coming home to the Democratic Party, arguing that the unique personalities in this year's race are driving the movement, as seen by more traditional trends playing out in some down-ballot races.
""If he goes away, if we beat him, I think that this whole thing starts lining back up as long as you have a strong Democratic nominee,"" said Democratic strategist Chuck Rocha. ""I don't see all the opportunities once Donald Trump is gone, because the Donald Trump phenomenon is only happening with Donald Trump.""
""I think Trump is seen as better on the economy among a subset of younger voters than most Republicans. So, I think it will be challenging for Republicans writ large to mimic that success,"" added a source familiar with the Harris campaign's thinking.
Others disagreed, noting that the trends that are producing the changes, such as a rise in populism, were bubbling up prior to Trump and will outlive his political career.
""I don't think Trump is the driver of this,"" Madrid said. ""These dynamics began before him.
""I don't think it's as clear as to say one group is going to benefit over the other. I think what we're seeing is the movement of all these pieces away from a right-left spectrum to a top-down spectrum,"" he added.
Still others predicted a whole new ballgame.
Trump has undoubtedly altered America's politics, and, as seen by the failures of some of his primary rivals, his personal brand is difficult to replicate -- meaning without him on a ticket, the country might simply be staring into the political unknown.
""Floodgates open up for there to be competition among subgroups. I absolutely believe that. I think all bets are off. And it just depends on who the candidates are on both sides,"" Anzalone said. ""There may be no snapping back.""
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	7568	
abcnews	Arrest made in connection with FEMA threats in North Carolina	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/threats-fema-workers-north-carolina-sheriff/story?id=114776904	"The man was armed with a handgun and rifle, according to the sheriff's office.
The sheriff's office in Rutherford County, NC, announced Monday that they'd arrested a man and charged him with allegedly threatening to harm Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) workers in the area.
William Parsons, 44, of Bostic, NC, was charged with ""going armed to the terror of the public,"" according to a statement from the Rutherford County Sheriff's Office provided to ABC News.
The Rutherford County Sheriff's Office statement said deputies on Saturday investigated reports in the vicinity of Lake Lure and Chimney Rock that a ""white male had an assault rifle and made the comment about possibly harming FEMA employees"" working in the area. Witnesses were able to provide enough information for law enforcement to ultimately locate and identify Parsons, who was armed with a handgun and a rifle, according to the statement.
Parsons was released Saturday after posting $10,000 bond, according to the Rutherford County Sheriff's Office.
""The initial report stated there was a truckload of militia that was involved. However, after further investigation, it was determined Parsons acted alone and there were no truckloads of militia going to Lake Lure,"" the statement said.
According to SITE Intelligence, which tracks the online activity of extremist organizations, Parsons has promoted the militia group the Three Percenters online.
News of the arrest came one day after the sheriff in Ashe County, NC, about two hours to the north of Rutherford County, said that there had been threats against FEMA employees responding to Hurricane Helene.
""Recently in the mountain region, there have been threats made against them,"" Ashe County Sheriff Phil Howellposted on Facebookregarding the alleged threats against FEMA employees.
""This has not happened in Ashe County or the surrounding counties,"" Howell added. ""Out of an abundance of caution, they have paused their process as they are assessing the threats.""
Sheriff Howell did not specify in his post who allegedly made the threats, nor is it known if Parsons' alleged threat is the one to which Sheriff Howell was referring. An ABC News request for comment sent to the Ashe County Sheriff's Office did not receive an immediate response.
Threats to FEMA employees have been consistent during the Hurricane response, along with misinformation, federal authorities told ABC News.
Search and rescue efforts in the affected areas continue, a federal source told ABC News. However, while FEMA assesses potential threat information, disaster survivor assistance teams are currently working at fixed locations and secure areas instead of going door to door, out of an abundance of caution, the source said, adding that FEMA will monitor threat information and make adjustments to this posture on a regular basis in coordination with local officials.
A FEMA spokesperson told ABC News that the agency continues to support communities impacted by Helene and to help survivors apply for assistance.
""For the safety of our dedicated staff and the disaster survivors we are helping, FEMA has made some operational adjustments,"" the spokesperson said. ""Disaster Recovery Centers will continue to be open as scheduled, survivors continue to register for assistance, and we continue to help the people of North Carolina with their recovery.""
At the direction of North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper, the state's Department of Public Safety will assist FEMA conduct their operations.
""We know that significant misinformation online contributes to threats against response workers on the ground, and the safety of responders must be a priority,"" the governor said.  ""At my direction, the North Carolina Department of Public Safety is helping partners like FEMA to coordinate with law enforcement to ensure their safety and security as they continue their important work.""
Sheriff Howell said that FEMA locations in Ashe County are open this week.
""Stay calm and steady during our recovery, help folks and please don't stir the pot,"" he said.
FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell told ABC News Friday during a press briefing that threats to FEMA employees are a ""shame"" and a ""distraction.""
""We continuously monitor the social media, channels, other outlets where we're seeing this information, because we want to make sure we're providing for the safest environment for our employees, and making sure that they know that their safety is first and foremost for us as they go out into these communities,"" Criswell said in response to a question from ABC News.
FEMA hires people from local communities when disaster hits, Criswell said, noting that ""many"" leave their families behind to go and help communities who are impacted by disaster.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	4799	
abcnews	"Harris works to appeal to Black men, a critical group for Democrats"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/harris-works-appeal-black-men-critical-group-democrats/story?id=114780568	"The vice president will continue to court Black men while in Detroit.
For a second day this week, Vice President Kamala Harris is focusing on a key voting bloc that is a critical base for the Democratic Party: Black men.
On Tuesday, Harris will participate in an audio town hall event with Charlemagne tha God, host for the popular ""The Breakfast Club"" podcast. Also on Tuesday, the vice president is meeting with Black entrepreneurs in Detroit.
Her events come a day after her campaign rolled out a comprehensive plan -- just three weeks until the election -- to help Black men ""get ahead"" economically, which includes providing one million fully forgivable loans to Black entrepreneurs and an effort to invest in Black male teachers.
In an interview on ""Roland Martin Unfiltered,"" also released on Monday, Harris argued that economic policies that consider ""historical barriers"" facing Black people benefit all Americans.
""If you have public policy, and I'm talking about economic public policy specifically at this point, but if you have public policy that recognizes historical barriers and what we need to do then to overcome,"" Harris said. ""First, speak truth about them and then overcome them, that in the process of doing that, not only are you directly dealing with the injustices and the legal and procedural barriers that have been focused on Black folks, but by eliminating those barriers, everyone actually benefits, right?""
The focus on Black voters comes afterformer President Barack Obama sternly chided Black menover ""excuses"" to not vote for Harris while speaking to a group of Black at a campaign field office in Pittsburgh's East Liberty neighborhood last week.
""You have [Trump], who has consistently shown disregard, not just for the communities, but for you as a person, and you're thinking about sitting out?"" Obama asked. ""And you're coming up with all kinds of reasons and excuses?""
Harris is polling ahead of Trump with Black voters who are registered to vote, 82-13%, according tothe latest ABC News/Ipsos poll. That compares with 87-12% in the 2020 exit poll (a slight 5 points lower for Harris; no better for Trump). Black men are at 76-18% (compared with 79-19% four years ago), the poll found.
These differences from 2020 aren't statistically significant, and Georgia Sen. Raphael Warnock said he agrees.
""I don't buy this idea that there will be huge swaths of Black men voting for Donald Trump. That's not going to happen. What I would urge folks to do is to show up, to understand that if you don't vote, that is a vote for Donald Trump. That's the concern.,"" said Warnock on a Tuesday campaign call with reporters.
Part of the Harris campaign's plan for Black men includes legalizing recreational marijuana nationwide. Such a move would ""break down unjust legal barriers that hold Black men and other Americans back,"" the campaign said in its release.
This takes the Biden administration's current stance, which includes pardoning people convicted of marijuana possession, a step further. For Harris' part, such a proposal is evidence of her evolving position. She has become more progressive since her time as attorney general of California when she was heavily criticized for aggressively prosecuting weed-related crimes.
Asked if she ever smoked by Charlamagne tha God back in 2019, Harris responded, ""I have. And I inhaled -- I did inhale. It was a long time ago. But, yes.""
She went on to clarify that she believes in legalizing the substance.
""I have had concerns, the full record, I have had concerns, which I think -- first of all, let me just make this statement very clear, I believe we need to legalize marijuana,"" she said. ""Now, that being said -- and this is not a 'but,' it is an 'and' -- and we need to research, which is one of the reasons we need to legalize it. We need to move it on the schedule so that we can research the impact of weed on a developing brain. You know, that part of the brain that develops judgment, actually begins its growth at age 18 through age 24.""
Her answer garnered backlash due to her record prosecuting the substance, particularly given the racial disparities in punishment nationwide. Harris' new proposal looks to correct those historical inequities.
But is it enough?
In addition to the new proposals, Harris has aggressively been campaigning in Black communities in the past week, stopping at several local Black-owned businesses and churches in North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Michigan as well as appearing on several media programs with predominately Black audiences.
In September, Harris told a group of Black reporters in a moderated conversationhosted by the National Association of Black Journaliststhat she was ""working to earn the vote, not assuming I'm going to have it because I am Black.""
Her campaign launched a ""Black Men Huddle"" organizing call on Monday, which featured remarks from campaign senior officials Tony West, Brian Nelson, Quentin Fulks and Rep. Cedric Richmond. Later, there was a weekly event focused on Black men supporting Harris featuring actor Don Cheadle.
""What the vice president is doing is giving us the tools to be able to go and have meaningful, impactful conversations when Black men turn back around to us and say, 'Well, what's in it for me,' I think that we have policy and tools like this that we can say exactly that,"" said Fulks.
Doc Rivers, whointerviewed Harris for his ""ALL the SMOKE"" podcast on Monday, said he agreed with Obama's comments last week and pushed for Black men to cast their ballots.
""I agree 100% with President Obama -- it's unacceptable not to vote. When you look back at what your parents and your grandparents had to do to get the right to vote, that's unacceptable for me,"" said Rivers. ""But there are Black men who out there that feel hopeless, they don't believe a vote helps them in either way, and I'm here to tell them they're wrong.""
ABC News interviewed Black men in Pittsburgh's predominately Black Homewood Brushton neighborhood last Friday about their impressions of Harris and what she needed to do to get their vote.
Aquail Bey, a student at The Community College of Allegheny County and president of its veterans club, said Harris needs to meet them where they are and genuinely speak with them.
""She's doing a good job right now, but I think she should have -- go to places where they are, you know, meet them on their own terms, you know. Go to the neighborhoods where they are, go to the barber shops ... "" Bey said. ""Wherever the Black men are, go to where they are, speak to them a way that they understand.""
Aaron Stuckey said people shouldn't assume Black men aren't getting behind Harris.
""Just poll us instead of assuming that that's where we're not going,"" he said.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	6794	
abcnews	Close fight in the trenches: A look at the ground game in the presidential race: POLL	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/close-fight-trenches-ground-game-presidential-race/story?id=114780589	"Harris and Trump are fighting to parity in voter contacts.
A narrow edge in voter contact by Kamala Harris' campaign at the national level fades to parity in the battleground states -- but Harris has been doing more to turn her contacts into voter assistance, an ABC News/Ipsos poll finds.
Three weeks before Election Day, and with early voting underway in more than 40 states, the level of political outreach is vast. More than four in 10 Americans have been contacted by the Harris or Trump campaigns asking for their vote, rising to 62% in the seven battleground states.
Nationally, 30% report having been contacted by Harris' campaign, vs. 26% by Trump's -- a small edge for Harris. This evens out in the battleground states, where 47% report contacts by Trump's campaign, 46% by Harris'. These counts exclude fundraising appeals -- and surely have grown since this survey was completed last week.
See PDF for full results.
In all, 16% of adults have been contacted nationally by Harris' campaign only, 12% by Trump's only and 14% by both, adding to 42%. In the battlegrounds, it's 15% by Trump only, 14% by Harris only and 32% by both.
There's a gap in terms of voter assistance. Nationally, 43% of those contacted by the Harris campaign say they were offered one of several forms of voting assistance, vs. 35% of those contacted by Trump's campaign. In the battleground states, offers of assistance run 48-39% in Harris' favor, a slight advantage given sample sizes.
Forms of assistance tested in the survey include checking that people are registered to vote, confirming their plans to vote and making sure they know where to vote. In the battlegrounds (Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin), people contacted by Harris are 8 percentage points more apt than those contacted by Trump to report help making sure they're registered and 7 points more apt to report an effort to confirm they have voted or will vote, both slight differences given sample sizes. Gaps nationally are similar.
This poll, produced byLanger Research Associatesfor ABC, with fieldwork byIpsos, also finds some signs of more targeted outreach by Harris. Nationally, 46% of Democrats have heard from her campaign, vs. 37% of Republicans contacted by the Trump campaign. And 42% of Harris supporters say her campaign has reached out to them, vs. 35% of Trump's supporters contacted by his side.
Similar to Harris' lead on overall contacts, these gaps disappear in the battleground states. That said, among people in these states who report having voted forJoe Bidenin 2020, 71% report a contact by the Harris campaign this year. Among those who voted for Trump in 2020, fewer, 59%, report a 2024 Trump campaign contact.
Naturally, Harris' campaign has had far more contact than Trump's among Democrats and liberals, while Trump's has done more outreach to Republicans and conservatives. National results also demonstrate campaign targeting in other ways. Three examples:


Among people younger than 40 -- a generally pro-Harris group -- 27% report a Harris campaign contact vs. 19% contacted by the Trump campaign.
By contrast, among white evangelical Protestants, a solidly pro-Trump group, 34% have been contacted by the Trump campaign, vs. 16% by Harris'.

There are inefficiencies on both sides. Nationally, 24% of Trump supporters have been contacted by the Harris campaign asking for their vote, and 21% of Harris supporters have been contacted by the Trump campaign. Misplaced outreach rises in the battlegrounds: There, 44% of Harris supporters have been asked for a Trump vote, and 41% of Trump supporters have heard from the Harris campaign.
Using national data for adequate sample sizes, there are several groups in which Harris' campaign exceeds Trump's in offering assistance to people they've contacted. It's 58% among Black people contacted by Harris' campaign vs. 38% among Black people contacted by Trump's. It's 40% among college graduates contacted by Harris vs. 26% among those contacted by Trump. And the Harris campaign has offered assistance to 42% of independents it's contacted, a potential swing voter group, vs. 32% among independents contacted by the Trump campaign.
Text messages are the most common types of outreach, reported by 61% of those who've heard from either or both of the campaigns. That's followed by email, 43%; postal mail, 36%; social media, 25%; and phone or voicemail, 19%.
Last on the list is the kind of outreach many political scientists say is most effective -- in-person contact, reported by 6%.
The distribution of contact types is similar across the two campaigns overall, albeit with more digital outreach by Harris and more by mail from Trump. Nationally, 84% of her contacts report having heard from her campaign by text, email or on social media vs. 77% of Trump's. Trump, for his part, leads on postal mail outreach, 38 vs. 29%. Distributions look largely similar in the battlegrounds, although both campaigns appear to be focusing more on postal mail; 56% of battleground state respondents who have been contacted by either campaign have been contacted via postal mail vs. 36% nationally.
This ABC News/Ipsos poll was conducted online via the probability-based Ipsos KnowledgePanel_ Oct. 4-8, 2024, in English and Spanish, among a random national sample of 2,631 adults. Partisan divisions are 29-29-30%, Democrats-Republicans-independents. Results have a margin ofsampling errorof plus or minus 2 percentage points, including the design effect, for the full sample. Error margins are larger for subgroups, including 5 points for battleground state residents. Sampling error is not the only cause of differences in polls.
The survey was produced for ABC News byLanger Research Associates, with sampling and data collection by Ipsos. See details on ABC News survey methodologyhere.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	5905	
abcnews	Harris calls Trump 'increasingly unstable and unhinged' during Pennsylvania rally	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/harris-calls-trump-increasingly-unstable-unhinged-erie-pennsylvania/story?id=114795103	"Harris played clips of Trump during her campaign stop in Erie on Monday.
Vice PresidentKamala Harrisdeployed a new show-and-tell approach to lambasting former PresidentDonald Trumpat her Monday night rally, playing clips of him calling his opponents the ""enemy within"" and saying that it signaled that he was ""increasingly unstable and unhinged.""
""After all these years, we know who Donald Trump is: He is someone who will stop at nothing to claim power for himself,"" Harris said during her campaign stop in Erie, Pennsylvania.
""And you don't have to take my word for it. I've said, for a while now, watch his rallies, listen to his words,"" she added.
Harris first invited Americans to watch Trump's rallies during the presidential debate hosted by ABC News debate last month.
""He tells us who he is, and he tells us what he would do if he is elected president. So here tonight, I will show you one example of Donald Trump's worldview and intentions,"" Harris said, teeing up the video that played on large monitors at the Erie Insurance Arena.
""The worst people are the enemies from within,"" Trump is seen saying in one clip.
""Now if you had one really violent day, one rough hour, and I mean real rough,"" he says in another.
The presentation marks the introduction of a new element to a Harris rally.
The vice president has quoted Trump's comments before -- as she also did again throughout her speech Monday night -- and has repeatedly asked supporters to watch his events, but she has yet to play a video of them.
""So, you heard his words. You heard his words coming from him. He's talking about the enemy within Pennsylvania. He's talking about the enemy within our country, Pennsylvania,"" Harris said after the clip played.
""He considers anyone who doesn't support him or who will not bend to his will, an enemy of our country,"" Harris warned.
Harris went on to say another Trump term would be ""a huge risk for America and dangerous,"" calling out his positions on reproductive freedoms, climate and LGBTQ+ rights.
The vice president concluded her speech in Pennsylvania with a rallying cry to voters. ""We are all here together because we know what's at stake. And we are here together because we love our country,"" she said.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	2276	
abcnews	"Walz to campaign with Presidents Obama, Clinton in early-vote push: Sources"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/walz-campaign-presidents-obama-clinton-early-vote-push/story?id=114814686	"Walz will be in North Carolina with Clinton and in Wisconsin with Obama.
Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz, for the first time this cycle, will soon hit the campaign trail with former President Barack Obama and former President Bill Clinton, according to a senior campaign official.
The vice presidential nominee will be out with his party's former standard bearers this week and next week in an effort to push for early voting in battleground states, ABC News has exclusively learned.
The governor will first rally with Clinton in Durham, North Carolina, on Thursday -- the first day of early voting in the critical battleground state. Next Tuesday, Walz will travel to Wisconsin, another battleground, with Obama for the start of early voting in that state.
The joint campaign blitzes come as the Harris-Walz ticket has deployed both former presidents -- some of its strongest political assets -- headed into the final stretch of the election cycle.
Obama hit the trail for the ticket starting on Oct. 10 and has additional stops planned in the run-up toElectionDay, according to the campaign.
His first stop was in battleground Pennsylvania in the Pittsburgh area -- a visit wherehe sternly chided Black menover ""excuses"" to not vote for Harris, saying he finds them sitting out or voting for former President Donald Trump ""not acceptable.""
Obama will also independently hit the campaign trail in the Sun Belt this week, with stops on Friday in Arizona and on Saturday in Nevada -- the first days of early voting in the state.
On Sunday and Monday, Clinton made his trail debut with travel across rural communities in Eastern and South Georgia to encourage Georgians to vote early.
Last night, on the eve ofearly in-person voting in the state, Clinton stumped for the Harris-Walz ticket in battleground Georgia, mounting the stakes of the election and the importance of voting.
""I want you to be happy, and I want you to know that I am here because I believe. I believe, based on my personal knowledge of the job and the candidates, that Kamala Harris will be a fine president,"" he said.
""All we gotta do is show up. If we show up, we'll win,"" Clinton added.
The joint principal campaign events also come as Walz himself has made campaign stops related to early voting. The governor campaigned last week in Phoenix and Tucson on the first day of early voting in Arizona.
""I know you've started voting here in Arizona. It's happening across the country. We can make a difference. And I think just the idea of having an administration building on these strong relationships, this is our opportunity to take this to the next level that we need to do,"" Walz said at event with tribal leaders in Chandler, Arizona last Wednesday.
ABC News' Selina Wang, Fritz Farrow, Gabriella Abdul-Hakim and Lalee Ibssa contributed to this report.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	2867	
abcnews	"Arizona counties don't have to do citizenship checks before election, judge rules"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory/arizona-counties-wont-forced-citizenship-checks-election-judge-114831464	"Those who sought the checks made their request too close to the election.
PHOENIX --A judge has rejected a request to require Arizona's 15 counties to verify the citizenship of some 42,000 voters registered only to vote in federal elections in the presidential battleground state, concluding those who sought the checks made their request too close to the Nov. 5 election and didn¡¦t have legal standing.
A lawsuit filed on behalf of an Arizona voter and the conservative advocacy group Strong Communities Foundation of Arizona sought a court order requiring county recorders to ask federal authorities to verify the citizenship of those voters.
Arizona requires voters to prove their citizenship to participate in local and state races. Voters who don¡¦t provide proof of citizenship yet still swear they are U.S. citizens are allowed to vote only for president, the U.S. House or Senate.
The lawsuit alleged officials weren¡¦t complying with a 2022 law requiring the cross-checking of registration information with various government databases.
¡§They (the plaintiffs) have not made a clearcut showing of harm, nor that the action they request is feasible in the midst of a general election,¡¨ U.S. District Judge Krissa Lanham wrote in an order issued Friday.
Lanham, a nominee of President Joe Biden, said she was declining to force county recorders to divert resources away from preparing for the election and toward citizenship checks just weeks before Election Day.
The plaintiffs told the court that they intend to appeal the ruling.
America First Legal, which is run by former Donald Trump adviser Stephen Miller and represents the plaintiffs, said in a statement Tuesday that the appeal effort was made ¡§to demand potential illegal aliens and noncitizens are lawfully removed from the Arizona voter rolls.¡¨
Taylor Kinnerup, a spokeswoman for Maricopa County Recorder Stephen Richer, declined to comment on the judge¡¦s order.
The lawsuit alleged it wasn¡¦t enough for county officials to consult the databases and said officials should ask federal authorities to verify the voters¡¦ citizenship status.
After it was pointed out that federal law bars systematic voter-list purges within 90 days of an election, the plaintiffs clarified that they were merely asking that a letter be sent to federal officials inquiring about the citizenship of federal-only voters, according to Lanham. The plaintiffs noted they weren¡¦t seeking the removal of people from voter rolls.
The 42,000 voters at issue in the lawsuit are separate from a much larger group of voters whose citizenship hasn¡¦t been confirmed yet will still be allowed to vote in local, state and federal elections in November, according to the office of Secretary of State Adrian Fontes.
About a month ago, officials uncovered a database error that hadmistakenly designated nearly 98,000 votersas having access to the full ballot, even though their citizenship status hadn¡¦t been confirmed.
Driver licenses issued after 1996 are considered valid documented proof of citizenship, but the system error marked the original batch of voters who had pre-1996 licenses as eligible to vote in state and local elections.
The state Supreme Court concluded those voters, who were already able to vote in the federal races,could vote in state and local racesfor the 2024 general election.
A little more than a week later, the number of misclassified votersjumped from almost 98,000 to around 218,000. Fontes' office has said all people included in the database error remain eligible to vote a full ballot.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3596	
abcnews	"Casey, McCormick debating again after combative first meeting in battleground Senate race"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory/casey-mccormick-debating-after-combative-meeting-battleground-senate-114810991	"Democratic U.S. Sen. Bob Casey of Pennsylvania and Republican challenger David McCormick are meeting for their second debate
HARRISBURG, Pa. --Democratic U.S. Sen.Bob Caseyof Pennsylvania and Republican challengerDavid McCormickmeet for their second debate Tuesday evening, with control of the Senate on the line and tens of millions of dollars pouring into the race every week.
During theirfirst debatetwo weeks ago, Casey tried to drive home the message that McCormick is a wealthy,carpetbaggingex-hedge fund CEO whogot richat the expense of Americans and will serve the interests of billionaires.
McCormick painted Casey as a weak, do-nothing out-of-touch career politician who will vote almost 100% of the time with PresidentJoe Bidenand Vice PresidentKamala Harris.
Mail-in voting has already begun in the pivotal swing-state seat, and the outcome of this race, one of the nation¡¦s most expensive, could help determine which party controls the narrowly divided Senate.
Casey, perhaps Pennsylvania¡¦s best-known politician, is seeking a fourth term in what he calls his toughest reelection challenge yet.
Casey, 64, supported Biden's major initiatives, including his$1.9 trillion pandemic relief package, and is a staunch ally of labor unions. The former state auditor general and treasurer has won six statewide elections and is Pennsylvania¡¦s longest-serving Democrat in the Senate. He has campaigned on preserving the middle class,abortion rights, labor rights and voting rights ¡X and calls McCormick and former PresidentDonald Trumpa threat to all those.
McCormick, 59, is making his second run for the Senate afterlosing narrowlyto Dr. Mehmet Oz in 2022¡¦s Republican primary. He was CEO of Bridgewater Associates, the world's largest hedge fund, sat on Trump¡¦s Defense Advisory Board and served in top positions under President George W. Bush. Those included posts as a Commerce undersecretary tasked with policy over controlling exports of sensitive technologies and a Treasury undersecretary as the administration tried to prevent bank failures during the recession.
McCormick backs Trump's pledge to extend the tax cuts he signed into law in 2017 and to carry out a mass deportation of immigrants who are in the country without permission ¡X prioritizing people with criminal records. McCormick also opposes abortion rights, but said he wouldn't vote for a national ban on abortion.
Issues aroundborder policyand theIsrael-Hamas warare prominent in the race.
Democrats currently hold a Senate majority by the narrowest of margins, but facea difficult 2024 Senate map.
More than $190 million has been spent on this single race so far, according disclosures to the Federal Election Commission. The total is on track to exceed $320 million, based on campaign ad tracking by AdImpact, which includes spots reserved between now and Election Day.
The 60-minute debate will air starting at 7 p.m., hosted byWPVI-TV in Philadelphia, which will broadcast it live.Univision 65in Philadelphia will simulcast it with Spanish language translation. Both stations will stream it live online, as willABC News Liveand Univision'sVIX.
Both Casey and McCormickwere uncontestedfor their party¡¦s nominations. Also on the ballot in this race are John Thomas of the Libertarian Party, Leila Hazou of the Green Party and Marty Selker of the Constitution Party. They were not invited to the debate.
___
Follow Marc Levy attwitter.com/timelywriter.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3479	
abcnews	Vance stands by Trump's false claims Venezuelan gangs have invaded Colorado	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/vance-stands-trumps-false-claims-venezuelan-gangs-aurora/story?id=114751512	"The Republican mayor of the city has said the claims are grossly exaggerated.
GOP vice presidential nominee Sen. JD Vance is standing by former PresidentDonald Trump'sfalse claims that Venezuelan gangs have invaded and conquered Aurora, Colorado.
Trump has repeatedly claimed that members of the Venezuelan Tren de Aragua gang have ""taken over"" apartment complexes and ""overrun"" the city, as he did in arally in the cityon Friday.
Mike Coffman, the Republican mayor of Aurora, said Trump's claims are ""grossly exaggerated"" and ""have unfairly hurt the city's identity and sense of safety.""
Asked by ""This Week"" co-anchor Martha Raddatz on Sunday if he supports Trump making those claims, Vance did not back down.
""Well, Martha, you just said the mayor said they were exaggerated. That means there's got to be some element of truth here,"" Vance said.""
Raddatz followed up with Vance, saying the issues in Aurora were limited to a handful of apartment complexes and that the mayor released a statement saying the city's ""dedicated police officers have acted on those concerns and will continue to do so.""
Vance responded, saying Democratic nominee Vice President Kamala Harris caused the issues in Aurora.
""Unfortunately, when you let people in by the millions, most of whom are unvetted, most of whom you don't know who they really are, you're going to have problems like this.""
""Kamala Harris, 94 executive orders that undid Donald Trump's successful border policies. We knew this stuff would happen. Bragged about opening the border, and now we have the consequences, and we're living with it. We can do so much better, but frankly, we're not going to do better, Martha, unless Donald Trump calls this stuff out. I'm glad that he did.""
In the aftermath of Hurricane Helene, which devastated parts of states in the southeastern U.S., including Florida, North Carolina, and Georgia,Trump has falsely suggestedthat aid from FEMA meant for the hurricane was going to migrants and that the federal government is going out of their way to not help people in Republican areas.
Asked if he believed that true, Vance defended the president.
""What the President said is that fundamentally, FEMA aid is distracted by going to illegal migrants,"" Vance responded. ""We've got Republican congressmen who are on the ground who represent that area saying that they have to call the White House to get food and water to FEMA? I don't, frankly, think there's anything malicious going on here, Martha, but I do think that we've had an incompetent response to this particular crisis, particularly in Western North Carolina, which, to be fair, was hit harder than a lot of us expected it.""
Vance called the federal government's response to the crisis incompetent, saying members of the military are still ""trickling"" into western North Carolina.
Raddatz pushed back against the false claims that the government is not assisting people in Republican areas and citing Pentagon officials who said that active duty troops were staged and ready to go before being called upon and were instantly out the door.
On Friday in Georgia, Vance said that the attorney general is the second-most important government role after the president.
Raddatz pressed Vance if Trump would go after his political opponents if he won another term.
""No, he was president for four years, and he didn't go after his political opponents. You know, who did go after her political opponents? Kamala Harris, who has tried to arrest everything from pro-life activists to her political opponents,"" Vance said.
To follow up, Raddatz told Vance that Trump has said in the past that those who have cheated will be prosecuted.
""Well, he said that people who violated our election laws will be prosecuted. I think that's the administration of law,"" Vance said. ""He didn't say people are going to go to jail because they disagree with me.""
Vance continues to refuse to acknowledge that Trump lost the 2020 election. In an interview with ""This Week"" earlier this year, Vance said he wouldn't have certified the results of the 2020 race until states submitted pro-Trump electors.
Raddatz pressed Vance again on the 2020 election.
""In interview after interview, question after question, and in the debate, you refuse to say that Donald Trump lost the 2020 election,"" Raddatz said. ""So I'm just going to assume that if I ask you 50 times whether he lost the election, you would not acknowledge that he did. Is that correct?""
""Martha, you've you asked this question. I've been asked this question 10 times in the past couple of weeks. Of course, Donald Trump and I believe there were problems in 2020,"" Vance said.
Pressed again by Raddatz, Vance replied, ""I've said repeatedly I think the 2020 election had problems. You want to say rigged? You want to say he won? Use whatever vocabulary term you want.""
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	4885	
abcnews	Harris was asked to name a few of Trump's virtues. Here's her response	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory/harris-asked-3-virtues-trump-114704743	"Vice President Kamala Harris was asked to name three virtues that her opponent in next month's election, Donald Trump, possesses ¡X but was unable to come up with even one
LAS VEGAS --Vice PresidentKamala Harriswas asked to name three virtues that her opponent in next month's election,Donald Trump, possesses ¡X but was unable to come up with even one.
At the end of hertown hall for Spanish-language network Univisionin Las Vegas on Thursday, audience member Teresa Djedjro, 48 and originally born in Mexico, asked Harris to, ""Please give me three virtues that Trump has.¡¨
Harris laughed and thanked her for the question before saying, ¡§I know that the vast majority of us has so much more in common than what separates us.¡¨ Then she made clear that is not the case for herself and the former president, saying Trump's approach to politics, ¡§pains me¡¨ while singling out his ¡¨us versus them¡¨ approach.
¡§I don¡¦t think that's healthy for our nation, and I don¡¦t admire that,"" Harris said. ""And I¡¦m quite critical of it, coming from someone who wants to be president of the United States.¡¨
Taking another stab at a compliment, she offered, ¡§I think Donald Trump loves his family and I think that¡¦s very important,"" only to continue, ""But I don¡¦t really know him. I only met him one time ... so I don¡¦t really have much more to offer you.¡¨
Trump is holding his own Univision town hall next week, after the original gathering in Miami was postponed due to Hurricane Milton. Still, he too has had little nice to say about Harris during the campaign, calling her ¡§mentally impaired.¡¨
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	1623	
abcnews	Trump outpaces Harris and Walz in campaign events as Election Day approaches	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-outpaces-harris-walz-campaign-events-run-final/story?id=113932634	"In September, Trump held 21 public events compared to Harris' 13.
As former President Donald Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris spend the run-up to the last stretch of the 2024 election barnstorming through battleground states, a contrast has emerged: Trump has single-handedly outpaced both Harris and her running mate, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz, in campaign events for the month of September as he shows no signs of slowing down -- a strategy his campaign is employing to focus on counties vulnerable to flipping.
In September, Trump held 21 public campaign events including remarks, rallies, press conferences and town halls. That's compared to Harris' 13 campaign events; Walz had seven campaign events, according to campaign schedules ABC News has reviewed. On top of Trump's jam-packed campaign schedule, his running mate, Sen. JD Vance, alone held 14 events in the month of September.
These tallies do not include brief campaign retail stops and appearances without remarks.
The intensity in Trump's campaign schedule has continued into the first week of October. From Oct. 1 through Oct. 6, Trump has already held eight campaign events compared to Harris, who has held two, according to an ABC News review of their schedules.
Recently Harris has spent her days focused on her official duties as vice president receiving Federal Emergency Management Agency briefings and surveying Hurricane Helene's damage in Georgia and North Carolina. Trump similarly visited Georgia to survey the storm damage and received his own briefings from local officials.
Harris campaign advisers have dismissed arguments that Harris isn't campaigning hard enough, pointing to the eight events she had done throughout the month in her official capacity as vice president including a trip down to the southern border along with dealing with the devastation from Hurricane Helene.
Harris campaign spokesperson Sarafina Chitika said in a statement that Trump is ""cocooned in a conservative media bubble"" and ""limiting his time in battleground states,"" while Harris and Walz are ""taking tough questions and meeting voters where they are.""
""In the home stretch, Donald Trump is campaigning in California, Chicago, and New York City, after camping out at Mar-A-Lago avoiding voters,"" Chitika wrote in the statement.
However, in recent weeks, Trump has been campaigning across multiple battleground states, which have included multiple appearances in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Michigan and North Carolina, as he enters a crucial phase of his campaign and vies to make a final pitch to voters ahead of Election Day.
""I go to a lot of places, we're definitely outworking the opposition. She'll go to one place in three days. I say, 'Why can't I do that?'"" Trump quipped at a campaign stop in Savannah, Georgia, late last month.
Earlier this election cycle, Trump was falling behind in the number of campaign events compared to his nonstop rallying during the 2016 election. Trump, who had early victories in primary races, had fewer events amid his legal battles, which kept him confined in a courtroom most days of the week.
But he has picked up the pace in the final months ahead of the election.
The former president has spent most of his time in the past month in the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, holding four events in September there as polling shows it's the closest state on the map between the two candidates. Harris only has a 0.4% lead over Trump in Pennsylvania, according to538's polling average.
Trump's events have been concentrated in urban-suburban areas in battleground states that flipped between his two presidential runs as his campaign hopes to eat away at Democratic margins.
For example, last month, Trump gave remarks at a manufacturing plant in Walker, Michigan, in Kent County -- a county that President Joe Biden flipped from Trump in 2020. Later in the day, Trump hosted a town hall in Warren, Michigan, which sits just outside of Detroit and was the only county in 2020 in the tri-county region that flipped to Trump in the past two cycles after former President Barack Obama won the county in 2008 and 2012.
Two weeks ago, Trump visited Prairie Du Chien in Crawford County, Wisconsin -- a southwest county in the state that is among several in the region that flipped from Obama to Trump. Now, Trump is trying to win back voters in these pivotal counties after he narrowly lost the state to Biden by 21,000 votes in 2020.
Last week, Trump marked his fourth visit to Wisconsin in eight days with events in Milwaukee and Dane counties -- two Democratic strongholds. He went on to campaign on Sunday in Juneau, Wisconsin, in Dodge County -- a county that has increasingly been turning into a Republican stronghold over the last few presidential elections.
Harris has similarly focused on Pennsylvania, holding five events in the commonwealth. She has spent much of her time in Western and central Pennsylvania, drawing crowds from both the Democratic-leaning Pittsburgh area as well as rural counties that have been wavering between strong and slight Republican leanings.
The schedule contrast comes as the Harris campaign, and previously Biden's, have been critical of Trump's slow pace on the road earlier in the cycle, arguing he was campaigning from ""his country club basement.""
In the early weeks of August, on the heels of Biden's withdrawal from the 2024 election, Trump only had a smattering of events in Republican-safe states, spending most of his time at private fundraisers and participating in online interviews including with tech entrepreneur Elon Musk and streamer Adin Ross.
Harris began introducing herself to the nation by holding multiple events in the beginning weeks of her campaign and drawing big crowds from that momentum -- especially in the second week of August when the Harris-Walz ticket held five joint rallies across the country -- but has since failed to keep up with that pace. At times, Harris has focused on her official duties as vice president instead or simply had no public campaign or vice presidential schedules announced.
Additionally, Harris and Walz have both received public scrutiny for their careful campaigning methods, both largely avoiding media availability on the road and sit-down interviews, something the Trump and his running mate, Sen. JD Vance both routinely do.
Recently, however, the Harris-Walz campaign has announced a series of media interviews including appearances on the ""Call Her Daddy"" podcast, ABC's ""The View,"" CBS News' ""60 Minutes,"" and the ""Howard Stern Show"" for Harris. Walz is set to do interviews on the ""Smartless"" podcast and ""Jimmy Kimmel Live"" this week.
Thelatest polling average from 538shows Harris is gaining momentum nationally, leading Trump by 2.6%, but a recentNew York Times/Siena College pollshows a tighter race with the two candidates neck-and-neck among registered voters in Michigan and Wisconsin. AnotherNew York Times/Siena College polla week prior showed Trump leading in the battleground states of Arizona and North Carolina.
As he enters the final stages of the campaign, Trump has publicly acknowledged the importance of the last weeks of his campaign, often telling his supporters that he isn't taking anything for granted. Trump's campaign has said the former president is aware of the stakes of the election as he enters the final stages and hopes his message on immigration and economy -- two key issues for voters this election -- resonate.
Trump has said he plans to leave everything on the field as Election Day draws near.
""We're going to leave nothing to chance and everything on the field ÿ and we're going to defeat Kamala Harris, and we're going to make America great again,"" Trump said at a campaign stop in Waunakee, Wisconsin, last week.
Harris, going into the final stretch of the election, has stressed that she's running as an ""underdog"" in what's shaping up to be a close race.
""This is a margin-of-error race. We are the underdog. And I am running like the underdog because I am the underdog in this race. The baton is now in our hands,"" Harris said at a fundraiser in San Francisco in late September.
While falling behind Trump in formal campaign remarks, the Harris campaign has filled their schedule for both candidates with retail campaign stops, seeing value in fostering environments where their candidates can have more face time with voters, as well as fundraisers that has allowed them to wipe out Trump's campaign money edge from earlier this year.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	8533	
abcnews	"W.H. NSA Sullivan, Sen. Rounds, & Gov.-elect Stein Sunday on ¡¥This Week¡¦"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/white-house-national-security-adviser-jake-sullivan-sen/story?id=116324208	"This is a listing for 'This Week' airing Sunday, December 1, 2024.

WHITE HOUSE NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER JAKE SULLIVAN, SEN. MIKE ROUNDS AND GOV.-ELECT JOSH STEIN SUNDAY ON ¡§THIS WEEK¡¨ WITH CO-ANCHOR JONATHAN KARL
Jake Sullivan
White House National Security Adviser
Sen. Mike Rounds
(R) South Dakota
Exclusive
Gov.-elect Josh Stein
(D) North Carolina
Exclusive
POWERHOUSE ROUNDTABLE
Rick Klein
ABC News Washington Bureau Chief
ABC News Political Director
Donna Brazile
Former DNC Chair
ABC News Contributor
Sarah Isgur
The Dispatch Senior Editor
Former Trump Justice Department Spokesperson
ABC News Contributor
Vivian Salama
Wall Street Journal National Politics Reporter
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Like ¡§This Week¡¨ on Facebookhere. You can also follow the show on Twitterhere.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	833	
abcnews	Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy to meet with House Republicans on DOGE plans	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/elon-musk-vivek-ramaswamy-meet-house-republicans-doge/story?id=116323773	"Musk recently proposed deleting the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy will head to Capitol Hill next week to meet with House Republicans on their plan to slash regulations and other parts of the federal government.
Speaker Mike Johnson announced he will host them on Thursday, Dec. 5 to discuss ""major reform ideas"" to ""revive the principle of limited government.""
Musk and Ramaswamy have been tapped by President-elect Donald Trump to lead the so-called ""Department of Government Efficiency."" Their roles have been described as ""outside of government"" advisers on how to make drastic cuts to various federal agencies and their workforces.
Musk, in particular, has become a member of Trump's inner circle as the president-elect prepares for a second term. The Tesla billionaire spent Thanksgiving with Trump at Mar-a-Lago in Florida.
Earlier this week, Musk proposed abolishing the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
¡§Delete CFPB. There are too many duplicative regulatory agencies,¡¨ he wrote on his social media platform, X.
Trump on the campaign trail vowed to dismantle federal bureaucracy but did not specifically call for the CFPB to be eliminated. To gut an entire agency would be a difficult task, andwould require legislationfrom Congress.
CFPB, which was formed in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis to protect consumers and review practices of the nation¡¦s banks, lenders and other institutions, has long been a target of conservative attacks over its cost and its regulations.
Earlier this year, the CFPBsurvived a legal challengeled by former Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco on behalf of a group of payday lenders alleging the agency's structure was illegal. The U.S. Supreme Court, in a 7-2 decision, upheld the agency¡¦s funding mechanism as constitutional.
Musk also recently reposted on social media the names of specific people and jobs that he suggested be cut. They include employees at the Department of Energy and the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation. ""So many fake jobs,"" Musk wrote in one post.
Musk and Ramaswamy outlined more of their plans for DOGE in aWall Street Journal op-edpublished last week.
They said they were helping Trump¡¦s transition team bring on board a ¡§lean team of small-government crusaders¡¨ that would be aimed at three core actions: repealing regulations, reducing the administrative workforce and saving costs.
¡§We are prepared for the onslaught from entrenched interests in Washington. We expect to prevail,¡¨ they wrote. ¡§Now is the moment for decisive action. Our top goal for DOGE is to eliminate the need for its existence by July 4, 2026 -- the expiration date we have set for our project.¡¨
Legal and logistical hurdlesremain for Musk and Ramaswamy's goal to slash the government. But they will get some help on Capitol Hill by a new congressional subcommittee aimed at eliminating government waste in conjunction with DOGE. Republican Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, a conservative firebrand and staunch supporter of Trump, has beenchosen to chairthe panel.
Ramaswamy, in response to Johnson's announcement of next week's meeting, said he's had ""great discussions so far"" with House and Senate GOP leaders about DOGE.
""Congress appears serious about delivering structural reform. We look forward to productive meetings in D.C. next week,"" Ramaswamy wrote on X.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3436	
abcnews	Biden to display AIDS Memorial Quilt on White House South Lawn for 1st time	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/president-biden-lady-debut-aids-memorial-quilt-white/story?id=116312801	"The Bidens will commemorate World AIDS Day on Sunday with survivors, families.
President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden will mark World AIDS Day on Sunday by debuting the AIDS Memorial Quilt at the White House.
It will be displayed on the South Lawn as the Bidens commemorate the day with survivors, their families and advocates.
A red ribbon will also be displayed on the South Portico of the White House to recognize those who have died due to AIDS-related illnesses, as well as the more than 40 million individuals living with HIV around the world.
The red ribbon -- now an annual tradition -- made its first appearance in 2007, under the Bush administration.
The White House said in statement that the Biden administration has made ending the HIV epidemic a key priority.
The statement touted the administration'sNational HIV/AIDS Strategy, which is focused on reducing new HIV infections, improving outcomes for people with HIV and breaking down societal barriers. It was established in 2021.
The White House Office of National AIDS Policy is set to release a progress report on the Biden administration's strategy next week.
The AIDS Memorial Quilt, a powerful symbol of the human toll of the virus, wasoriginally displayed on the National Mallduring the October 1987 National March on Washington for Lesbian and Gay Rights, at a time when many felt the federal government had been too slow to respond to the crisis.
The quilt, which is regularly displayed across the U.S. as an education tool, now contains nearly 50,000 panels, honoring more than 105,000 lives lost.
HIV infection in the U.S. declined by about 12% overall between 2018 and 2022, but remains a persistent problem, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
In 2019, the Department of Health and Human Services announced an effort to end the HIV epidemic in the U.S. It aimed to reduce new infections to 9,300 by 2025 and 3,000 by 2030. However, in 2022, there were more 31,800 estimated new HIV infections,according to the CDC.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	2071	
abcnews	"Biden says he hopes Trump rethinks tariffs, is thankful for 'peaceful transition'"	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/biden-hopes-trump-rethinks-tariffs-thankful-peaceful-transition-thanksgiving/story?id=116307793	"""The last thing we need to do is screw up those relationships,"" Biden said.
President Joe Biden spent Thanksgiving morning giving back to first responders on Nantucket, while also taking time to give his thoughts on his successor's threats toissue tariffson Mexico, Canada and China.
Biden told reporters he hopes President-elect Donald Trump ""rethinks"" hisDay 1 proposal, calling it a ""counterproductive thing to do.""
""We have an unusual situation in America. We're surrounded by the Pacific Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, and the two allies: Mexico and Canada. And the last thing we need to do is screw up those relationships. I think we've got them in a good place,"" Biden said Thursday.
Trump said this week that he plans to sign an executive order when he takes office on Jan. 20, 2025, that would charge Mexico and Canada with a 25% tariff on all products those nations send to the United States, in an effort to stop the flow of drugs entering the country and illegal border crossings.
He also vowed to charge China with an additional 10% tariff on top of any additional tariffs on products coming into the U.S., arguing the country wasn't doing enough to stop the flow of illicit drugs.
Economists widely forecast that tariffs of this magnitude would increase prices paid by American shoppers, since importers typically pass along a share of the cost of those higher taxes to consumers.
Trump's tariffs would cost the average U.S. household about $2,600 per year, according to an estimate from the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
With migrants being the central issue for Trump in threatening tariffs, Biden noted that illegal crossings are down considerably from what they were back when Trump was in office.
""There's a lot more to do, but, I hope they reconsider,"" he said on Thursday.
The president noted that with a thin GOP majority in Congress, there may have to be some ""real compromise"" in Trump's agenda.
""I want to make sure this transition goes smoothly and all the talk of what he's going to do and not do, I think there may be a little bit of internal reckoning on his part,"" Biden said.
Despite the disagreements with Trump, Biden said he was thankful for his family and ""for a peaceful transition,"" adding that he's ""really thankful"" to havesecured a ceasefire dealbetween Israel and Hezbollah.
The president also said he spoke to all three Americans who werereleasedfrom Chinese custody Wednesday.
""I'm happy they're home,"" he said.
Biden, who was joined by the first lady and his grandson Beau at a Nantucket firehouse, was asked what his message is to Americans worried about the future of the U.S. He told them to ""remember who we are.""
The White House said the Bidens also called units from each branch of the military ""to thank them and their families for their service to the country.""
Meanwhile, Vice President Kamala Harris spent Thanksgiving morning with her family at DC Central Kitchen as part of a community service project.
Harris said she will be making a turkey, her ""famous corn meal stuffing,"" sweet potatoes, cranberry sauce, scalloped potatoes, string beans, Brussels sprouts, salad and rolls for dinner.
""Lots of carbs,"" she said.
When asked by a reporter, ""What's next for you?"" Harris joked, ""Thanksgiving dinner,"" and continued preparing collard greens.
ABC News' Max Zahn contributed to this report.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3406	
abcnews	Mexico's president says its 'position is not to close borders' after Trump's claim	https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/mexicos-president-position-close-borders-response-trumps-claim/story?id=116295724	"Trump claimed Mexico would stop border crossings, ""effective immediately.""
President-electDonald Trumpspoke with Mexico's President Claudia Sheinbaum on Wednesday. The call took placetwo days after he announcedthat he planned to impose a 25% tariff on all imports from Mexico on his first day in the White House.
Trump called the conversation ""wonderful"" and ""very productive"" in apost on Truth Social, saying the two leaders talked about the border control and how to combat the flow of illegal drugs -- but these topical conversation points may be the only things on which the two could entirely agree.
Earlier in the day, Sheinbaum confirmed that she had spoken with Trump, and that they did discuss the shared border,writing on X: ""I had an excellent conversation with President Donald Trump. We discussed Mexico's strategy on the migration phenomenon and I shared that caravans are not arriving at the northern border because they are being taken care of in Mexico.""
But Trump went further, proclaiming that the Mexican president ""agreed to stop Migration through Mexico, and into theUnited States, effectively closing our Southern Border.""
In a follow-up post, he added, ""Mexico will stop people from going to our Southern Border, effective immediately. THIS WILL GO A LONG WAY TOWARD STOPPING THE ILLEGAL INVASION OF THE USA.""
Sheinbaum then appeared to directly contradict the president-elect's account of the conversation,posting on X: ""In our conversation with President Trump, I explained to him the comprehensive strategy that Mexico has followed to address the migration phenomenon, respecting human rights. Thanks to this, migrants and caravans are assisted before they reach the border. We reiterate that Mexico's position is not to close borders but to build bridges between governments and between peoples.""
Trump and Sheinbaum both also concur that they spoke about stemming the flow of illegal drugs, including fentanyl, into the U.S.
Sheinbaum wrote on X that they ""discussed strengthening collaboration on security issues within the framework of our sovereignty and the campaign we are carrying out in the country to prevent the consumption of fentanyl.""
And following their call, Trump announced on Truth Social that part of his plan to address the fentanyl epidemic in the U.S. will be a large advertising campaign.
""I will be working on a large scale United States Advertising Campaign, explaining how bad Fentanyl is for people to use - Millions of lives being so needlessly destroyed,"" Trump wrote. ""By the time the Campaign is over, everyone will know how really bad the horror of this Drug is.""
The call was arranged after Trump this week announced plans toslap tariffson Mexico, as well as Canada and China, in an effort to stem illegal border crossings and stop the flow of drugs entering the U.S.
On Tuesday, Sheinbaum fired back, warning him not to start a trade war that she said would hurt the U.S.
""President Trump, it is not with threats nor with tariffs that migration and drug consumption in the U.S. will be dealt with,"" Sheinbaum said at a press conference, reading from a letter she'd written to Trump. ""These great challenges require cooperation and mutual understanding.""
She also disputed Trump's claims about migration and drugs, and she blamed the U.S. for Mexico's drug war ¡X pointing to U.S. consumption and American guns.
""We don't make guns, we don't consume synthetic drugs. Those killed by crime to meet the demand for drugs in your country are unfortunately our responsibility,"" she said.
The swift rebuke was a departure from Sheinbaum's mentor, former President Andr_s Manuel L_pez Obrador, who had a chummy relationship with Trump during his first term.
When Trump similarly threatened tariffs on Mexico and to shut the border in 2018, the two men negotiated a deal to beef up Mexican immigration enforcement with U.S. support, reducing the numbers at the border ¡X and Trump dropped his threats.
24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events"	3998	
foxnews	Jeffries wants Biden to dole out pardons for people aggressively prosecuted 'for nonviolent offenses'	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/jeffries-wants-biden-dole-out-pardons-people-aggressively-prosecuted-for-nonviolent-offenses	"Fox News senior national correspondent Rich Edson has more on Democrats' reaction to President Biden's decision to pardon his son on 'Special Report.'
On the heels ofPresident Joe Biden'smove to issue a sweeping pardon for his son Hunter Biden, House Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y., issued a statement suggesting the president should issue pardons for individuals who faced ""aggressive prosecutions for nonviolent offenses.""
""Throughout his life, President Joe Biden has fought to improve the plight of hardworking Americans struggling to live paycheck to paycheck,"" Jeffries said in the statement. ""Many of these people have been aggressively prosecuted and harshly sentenced for nonviolent offenses, often without the benefit of adequate legal representation. Countless lives, families and communities have been adversely impacted, particularly in parts of Appalachia, Urban America and the Heartland.
""During his final weeks in office, President Biden should exercise the high level of compassion he has consistently demonstrated throughout his life, including toward his son, and pardon on a case-by-case basis the working-class Americans in the federal prison system whose lives have been ruined by unjustly aggressive prosecutions for nonviolent offenses,"" Jeffries continued.
""This moment calls for liberty and justice for all,"" he concluded.
REPUBLICANS HAMMER BIDEN'S ¡¥NO ONE IS ABOVE THE LAW¡¦ CLAIM FOLLOWING HUNTER PARDON: ¡¥AGED LIKE FINE MILK¡¦
Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y., speaks during a Get Out the Vote rally for Lauren Gillen, Democratic Congressional candidate in New York, not pictured, at Kennedy Memorial Park in Hempstead, N.Y. on Thursday, Oct. 17, 2024; Right: President Joe Biden delivers remarks from the Rose Garden at the White House on Nov. 26, 2024, in Washington, D.C.(Left: Adam Gray/Bloomberg via Getty Images; Right: Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images)
The president's pardon ofHunter Bidencovers more than a decade.
The ""Full and Unconditional Pardon"" covers ""those offenses against the United States which he has committed or may have committed or taken part in during the period from January 1, 2014 through December 1, 2024 ÿ ""
Biden has earned blowback, including from some members of his own party.
'IT'S A SETBACK': DEMOCRATS CRITICIZE BIDEN OVER HUNTER PARDON
Hunter Biden, son of President Joe Biden, watches as President Joe Biden gestures to his ¡¥Team USA¡¦ jacket on the South Lawn of the White House before boarding Marine One in Washington, D.C. on Friday, July 26, 2024(Bonnie Cash/UPI/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
Sen. Michael Bennet, D-Colo., asserted in a post on X that the president's move ""put personal interest ahead of duty and further erodes Americans¡¦ faith that the justice system is fair and equal for all.""
Colorado Gov. Jared Polissaid that the pardon would sully the president's reputation.
DEM REP. DEAN PHILLIPS BLASTS BIDEN AFTER HUNTER PARDON, SAYS SOME PEOPLE ¡¥ARE INDEED ABOVE THE LAW¡¦
Jared Polis, governor of Colorado, speaks to members of the media in the spin room following the first vice presidential debate at the CBS Broadcast Center in New York, on Tuesday, Oct. 1, 2024(Al Drago/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
""While as a father I certainly understand President @JoeBiden's natural desire to help his son by pardoning him, I am disappointed that he put his family ahead of the country. This is a bad precedent that could be abused by later Presidents and will sadly tarnish his reputation,"" the Democratic governor opined in a tweet.
Alex Nitzberg is a writer for Fox News Digital."	3594	0
foxnews	ACLU lawyer defends trans procedures for minors despite acknowledging 'it's not the kids who are consenting'	https://www.foxnews.com/media/aclu-lawyer-defends-trans-procedures-minors-despite-acknowledging-its-not-kids-who-consenting	"ACLU lawyer and activist Chase Strangio defended children receiving gender transition treatments on CNN Tuesday before making oral arguments before the Supreme Court.
A transgender ACLU attorney defended gender transition procedures for children Tuesday while appearing to acknowledge they're too young to consent.
On CNN, Chase Strangio discussed an upcoming case involving Tennessee¡¦s ban on puberty blockers and transgender surgeries for minors that the trans man will arguein front of the Supreme Courtlater this week.
Host Jake Tapper asked Strangio about people concerned that there isnot enough dataregarding the effects of minors receiving such procedures. Strangio insisted there was enough information to prove they helped kids and even some children under 10 need this ""relief"" from suffering.
ACLU lawyer Chase Strangio appeared on CNN's ""The Lead with Jake Tapper"" Tuesday.(CNN screenshot)
""These are not doctors being forced to provide this medication,"" Strangio said. ""These are doctors who are wanting to treat their patients in the best way that they know how, based on the best available evidence to us. And these are young people who may have known since they were two years old exactly who they are, who suffered for six or seven years before they had any relief.""
KIDS' GENDER CLINIC WHISTLEBLOWER TELLS DR. PHIL REGRETFUL PATIENTS BEGGED TO 'HAVE BODY PARTS PUT BACK ON'
Minors cannot legally consent to medical procedures and Strangio acknowledged this protection while trying to appeal to parental rights.
""What¡¥s happening here is not the kids who are consenting to this treatment. It¡¥s the parents who are consenting to the treatment,"" the attorney continued. ""And as a parent, I would say, when our children are suffering, we are suffering. And these are parents who love their children, who are listening to the advice of their doctors of the mainstream medical community and doing what¡¥s right for their kids, and the state of Tennessee has displaced their judgment.""
Strangio will argue against Tennessee's ban on transgender procedures for minors in front of the Supreme Court this week.(Photo by: Michael Siluk/UCG/Universal Images Group via Getty Images)
The upcoming case, U.S. v. Skrmetti, will be the first time the Supreme Court will consider restrictions on puberty blockers, hormone therapy and surgery for minors.
Strangio claimed that if the Supreme Court sides with Tennessee, it could open the door for bans on transgender treatments for adults.
""I think that¡¥s one of the things we should be really concerned about. We¡¥re hearing a lot about young people can¡¥t consent to this care, but it is their parents consenting to this care,"" Strangio said.
""And at the end of the day, we have adults who live as transgender people, people like myself, who have families who are part of communities, who are part of this society. And if the incoming administration bans our health care, that is essentially excising us from this country.""
CLICK HERE FOR MORE COVERAGE OF MEDIA AND CULTURE
U.S. vs. Skrmetti will be the first Supreme Court case to address restrictions on transgender procedures for minors.(Photo by Artur Widak/NurPhoto via Getty Images)
Tennessee is currently one of more than 20 states that have enacted some form ofrestrictions on gender transition proceduresfor minors.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Lindsay Kornick is an associate editor for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to lindsay.kornick@fox.com and on Twitter: @lmkornick."	3497	1
foxnews	Elon and Vivek should tackle US funding for this boondoogle organization and score a multimillion dollar win	https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/elon-vivek-should-tackle-us-funding-boondoogle-organization-score-multimillion-dollar-win	"Fox News senior White House correspondent Peter Doocy has more on how the new Department of Government Efficiency aims to cut as much as $2 trillion in government spending on 'America Reports.'
In the search to eliminate waste and unaccountable spending, a $20 billion annual savings plan is immediately available to incomingPresident Trump¡¦s Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE): American taxpayer dollars flowing to the United Nations.
Each year the U.S.provides nearly a quarterof the U.N.¡¦s total expenses, including assessed or mandatory ""regular"" funding of more than $3 billion and voluntary contributions that have vacillated between $10 and $15 billion in each of the past two years. Taking into account in-kind support services, the total is likely even higher. U.N. demands and U.S. subsidies have ballooned, with U.S. payouts almost doubling over the last decade.
Alarm bells ought to ring out for Americans both because of how the money gets spent and where it is going.
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION COULD LEAD TO BUDGET CUTS, LEADERSHIP SHAKEUP AT UN
Here are a few of the rabbit holes where your money ends up. U.S. taxpayers pay for U.N. tax-free salaries; for U.N. lounges set up for watching sports games with bargain prices for food and drink; for media campaigns and other festivities to celebrate the ""International Day of Neutrality"" invented by Russia, Afghanistan and friends, and the ""International Day of Banks.""
U.S. dollars for peacekeepers include the blue helmets in southern Lebanon (UNIFIL) who have kept busy observing Hezbollah rearm, build terror tunnels, take up positions among Lebanese civilians, and fire at Israelis.
The surging expenses of the Office of theU.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights¡V from your wallets ¡V have included staffing and support for a Chinese ""Independent Expert"" on ""international financial obligations of states on the full enjoyment of all human rights,"" an ""expert"" on ""a democratic and equitable international order"" who advocated that the International Criminal Court tackle American crimes against humanity, and an ""expert"" on ""International Solidarity"" created at the behest of Cuba.
FORMER HIGH-LEVEL UNITED NATIONS OFFICIALS TO LAUNCH 'DOGE-UN' TO HIGHLIGHT AGENCY INEFFICIENCIES
Congress has long been skeptical about U.N. uses of American money, so much so that they have insisted upon an annual report on ""United States Participation in the United Nations."" The most recent report during the Biden administration was published in March 2024 and covered the year 2022. Here is its astonishing conclusion:
""It is increasingly challenging for the United States to identify cost savings at the U.N. given the growing demands that U.N. member states place on the organization.""
The United Nations Headquarters building in New York Cityc.(Jakub Porzycki/NurPhoto via Getty Images)
DOGE can respond to this apparent brain-freeze with the proper course of deserved financial oversight. The U.N. budget, which covers everything from well over 100,000 long-term employees, administrative costs, peacekeeping, and a broad range of agencies and subsidiary bodies, deliberately lacks the transparency necessary to end misuse and corruption.
The General Assembly, for instance, is nonplussed about breaking its own elementary rule that no new activity will be approved without the cost being calculated and presented before the vote.
Sign now and squeeze member states later is familiar practice, as is tapping unused resources in one corner to satisfy unfilled appetites in another.
CLICK HERE FOR MORE FOX NEWS OPINION
At the heart of the U.N. financial structure lies the bad idea that the United States must pay for whatever abomination it votes against. Fans call it burden-sharing. We pay for what we don¡¦t like, and other countries help pay for our priorities. The truth is that the end product doesn¡¦t shake out on the plus side either for American national interests or taxpayer pocketbooks.
A 2005 Task Force on the United Nations, initiated during the George W. Bush administration and headed byNewt Gingrichand George Mitchell, voiced concern about insufficient supervision and talked a lot about reform. As it turns out, the watchword of ""reform"" in U.N. circles has been a euphemism for ""keep on keeping on"" until somebody notices, again.
Congress has also come up with other formulas for withholding money from the U.N., like refusing to fund a tiny list of U.N. projects dedicated to the destruction of the state of Israel. However, the U.N. has invented more such projects and Congress has taken years, if at all, to add to the withholding list and to confront the fundamental moral rot epitomized by the U.N.¡¦s systemic demonization of Israel.
DOGE creates an opportunity to clean house.
They can anticipate at least two rejectionist camps. Democrats who flog the erroneous idea that multilateralism begins and ends with the U.N. AndNew Yorkerswho figure they benefit from U.N. diplomats wining, dining, and hanging out in their neighborhood, whether or not they are hosting entourages of terrorists and criminal masterminds. Not only should the material and spiritual benefits of otherwise developing the prime real estate of midtown Manhattan be factored in for the sake of the locals, but the rest of the country also deserves a voice.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
A long overdue tally of American U.N. expenditures versus American needs is not a call to end American generosity or compassion beyond our borders. It is a call to protect the American goose laying the golden eggs from an avaricious and dangerous United Nations.
TheBiden administrationthought that finding savings for U.S. money filling U.N. coffers was a challenge. To which DOGE can be all set to reply: challenge accepted.
Anne Herzberg is legal adviser and U.N. representative of NGO monitor.
Anne Bayefsky is president of Human Rights Voices and director, Touro Institute on Human Rights and the Holocaust. Follow her on X@AnneBayefsky."	5996	2
foxnews	Al Sharpton's interview scandal becomes latest in decades-long history of controversies haunting MSNBC host	https://www.foxnews.com/media/al-sharptons-interview-scandal-becomes-latest-decades-long-history-controversies-haunting-msnbc-host	"MSNBC host Rev. Al Sharpton asked Vice President Kamala Harris on how she believes she'll be seen in 50 years while reflecting on her 60th birthday Sunday.
MSNBC host Rev. Al Sharpton is no stranger to controversy as revelations of what's been dubbed a ""pay to play"" scheme extends the long shadow of scandals that follow him.
Last week, MSNBC admitted it was ""unaware"" that Vice PresidentKamala Harris¡¦ presidential campaign paid $500,000 to Sharpton¡¦s National Action Network nonprofit ahead of a friendly Oct. 20 interview with the Democratic nominee just weeks before the election.
Following Harris¡¦ defeat to President-elect Donald Trump,FEC filingsrevealed the Harris campaign gave two $250,000 donations to Sharpton¡¦s nonprofit organization in September and October.  However, the MSNBC weekend host did not disclose to viewers the apparent conflict of interest before or after the interview. Neither did he disclose the donations to his bosses at the network, according to the Washington Free Beacon, which broke the story.
SHARPTON'S ¡¥PAY TO PLAY¡¦ SCANDAL ¡¥RICOCHETING AROUND THE HALLS¡¦ OF MSNBC, INSIDER SAYS: ¡¥CAN¡¦T BE ACCEPTABLE'
MSNBC host Rev. Al Sharpton has a history of scandals and controversies far behind the latest ""pay for play"" allegations.(Brian Stukes/Getty Images; Kim Kulish/Corbis via Getty Images; Screenshot/MSNBC)
Sharpton's political stripes are no secret as an open supporter of Harris and the Democratic Party, even speaking at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago. But the six-figure transaction between his group and the Harris campaign is a ""bridge too far"" among his MSNBC colleagues, according to a network insider.
While it's unclear whether Sharpton will face any consequences for the blatant conflict of interest, it marks the latest scandal to face the outspoken activist. These are some of the controversies he has been engulfed in over the decades.
Sharpton has built a reputation for playing fast and loose when it comes to his taxes. In 1993, he pleaded guilty for not filing his 1986 tax return in exchange for having two felony charges dropped.
In 2008, it was revealed that Sharpton owed nearly a staggering $1.5 million in back taxes.
The New York Timesoutlined some of his other financial troublesover the years. In 1990, he was acquitted of felony charges after he was accused of stealing a whopping $250,000 from a youth group. Three years later, he pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge after not filing a state income tax return. One of his for-profit businesses, Raw Talent, was also busted for not paying taxes for several years.
""Records reviewed by The New York Times show more than $4.5 million in current state and federal tax liens against him and his for-profit businesses,"" the Times reported in 2014.
MSNBC WAS ¡¥UNAWARE¡¦ HARRIS CAMPAIGN. GAVE $500K TO AL SHARPTON'S GROUP AHEAD OF FRIENDLY INTERVIEW
Despite his prominent stint at MSNBC, perhaps Sharpton is best known for rallying behind the infamous rape hoaxer Tawana Brawley.
Brawley, a 15-year-old Black girl, alleged in 1987 that she was kidnapped and raped by a group of White men after disappearing for four days from her New York home. She had been covered in feces and racial slurs written across her body.
Sharpton was among her closest advisers and was her most vocal defender, fueling racial tensions across the country in the process. A grand jury ultimately found her claims were false.
Sharpton himself was sued for defamation by one of individuals Brawley accused, who was awarded $65,000 in damages. Sharpton's supporters ended up footing the bill years later after he claimed he didn't have the money.
Rev. Al Sharpton was the biggest promoter of the Tawana Brawley rape hoax.(John Pedin/NY Daily News Archive via Getty Images)
To this day, Sharpton has no regrets for defending Brawley.
""I have no evidence that I was misled,"" Sharptonsaid in a January 2023 interview. ""My position was that there was this allegation from this young lady that was really questionable behavior by some that she accused.""
The prominent activist has a disturbing record of antisemitism over the years.
In 1991, Sharpton defended New York City College Professor Leonard Jeffries, who sparked outrage with his speech targeting ""rich Jews"" he said financed the slave trade and controlled Hollywood, saying they ""put together a system of destruction for Black people."" He responded to the controversy by saying """"If the Jews want to get it on, tell them to pin their yarmulkes back and come over to my house.""
KAMALA HARRIS INTERVIEWERS RECEIVED LARGE CAMPAIGN DONATIONS TO THEIR GROUPS AHEAD OF SIT-DOWNS
That same year, Sharpton fueled a deadly antisemitic mob in Crown Heights, Brooklyn after a Jewish man fatally stuck a 7-year-old Black boy with his car in a horrific accident.
At the boy's funeral, Sharpton said ""The world will tell us he was killed by accident. Yes, it was a social accident. It¡¦s an accident to allow an apartheid ambulance service in the middle of Crown Heightsÿ Talk about how Oppenheimer in South Africa sends diamonds straight to Tel Aviv and deals with the diamond merchants right here in Crown Heights."" His use of ""diamond merchants"" was referencing Jewish jewelers. He also led protests that included chants like ""Kill the Jews!"" and ""No Justice, No Peace!""
The riots led to the fatal stabbing of rabbinical scholar Yankel Rosenbaum by a Black teen.
Rev. Al Sharpton ignited racial tensions in Crown Heights targeting the Jewish community after a Black child was fatally struck by a Jewish motorist.(Daily News Archive via Getty Images)
CLICK HERE FOR THE LATEST MEDIA AND CULTURE NEWS
The incident was investigated and no charges were brought. But after the Jewish man moved to Israel, Sharpton rushed to the Jewish State to hunt him down. According to the New York Daily News, a woman spotted Sharpton at the airport and told him to ""Go to hell"" to which he replied ""I am in hell already. I am in Israel.""
In 1995, Sharpton referred to a Jewish store owner in Harlem as a ""White interloper"" after the store owner raised the rent of its Black subtenant after the store owner's own rent was raised by the building's owner, a Black Pentecostal church. Sharpton and his National Action Network organized weeks-long protests that led to a shooting that killed seven people and the Jewish store owner's business burned to the ground.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Joseph A. Wulfsohn is a media reporter for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to joseph.wulfsohn@fox.com and on Twitter: @JosephWulfsohn."	6564	0
foxnews	House GOP leaders endorse Trump-backed candidate Jimmy Patronis for Matt Gaetz's old seat	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/house-gop-leaders-endorse-trump-backed-candidate-jimmy-patronis-matt-gaetzs-old-seat	"The Alaska Congressional delegation will join the House speaker at the celebration.
House Republican leadershave endorsed Florida Chief Financial Officer and State Fire Marshal Jimmy Patronis for election in the Sunshine State's 1st Congressional District.
House SpeakerMike Johnson, R-La., House Majority Leader Steve Scalise, R-La., and House Majority Whip Tom Emmer, R-Minn., are all backing the candidate.
Patronis shared the endorsements on social media, thanking each of the House GOP figures.
WITH TRUMP PLEDGING ENDORSEMENT, FLORIDA CFO WILL RUN FOR MATT GAETZ'S FORMER HOUSE SEAT
U.S. Speaker of the House Mike Johnson (C), accompanied by U.S. House Majority Whip Rep. Tom Emmer (L), and U.S. House Majority Leader Rep. Steve Scalise (R) speaks during a news conference on Capitol Hill on Nov. 19, 2024 in Washington, D.C.(Andrew Harnik/Getty Images)
Last month,President-elect Donald Trumpurged Patronis to run, pledging to endorse him.
""Should he decide to enter this Race, Jimmy Patronis has my Complete and Total Endorsement. RUN, JIMMY, RUN!"" Trump declared in a Truth Social post
Special primary and general elections will be held next year to fill the seat vacated last month by Matt Gaetz, who resigned from Congress after Trump nominated him to serve as attorney general.
FLORIDA CFO REQUESTS REPORT ON POTENTIAL FOR INVESTING SOME STATE RETIREMENT SYSTEM FUNDS INTO DIGITAL ASSETS
Florida CFO Jimmy Patronis delivers remarks before Gov. Ron DeSantis took to the stage.(Tiffany Tompkins/Bradenton Herald/Tribune News Service via Getty Images)
Gaetz, who had just been re-elected prior to leaving office, ultimately withdrew himself from consideration for the Cabinet-level post.
But Gaetz is not the only Trump nominee who has bowed out.
FLORIDA SHERIFF CHAD CHRONISTER WITHDRAWS AS TRUMP'S NOMINEE TO LEAD DEA
President-elect Donald Trump looks on during the UFC 309 event at Madison Square Garden on Nov. 16, 2024, in New York City(Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Hillsborough County Sheriff Chad Chronister, who Trump recently nominated to serve as administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, withdrew himself from consideration for the job.
Alex Nitzberg is a writer for Fox News Digital."	2246	0
foxnews	Trump floats DeSantis as potential defense secretary replacement if Hegseth falters	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-floats-desantis-potential-defense-secretary-replacement-hegseth-falters	"Penelope Hegseth joins 'Fox & Friends' to defend her son's character and discuss his nomination by President-elect Trump to be defense secretary.
President-elect Donald Trumpis considering nominating Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida as defense secretary to replace Pete Hegseth, Trump's embattled current pick to steer the Pentagon, multiple sources confirm to Fox News.
DeSantis, a bitter Trump rival last year and early this year during the GOP presidential nomination battle, made peace with Trump after the primaries and helped raise funds for Trump during the general election.
Thepopular conservative governor, a Navy veteran who served in the Iraq war, was re-elected in a landslide in 2022 but is term-limited and cannot run for re-election in 2026.
HEAD HERE FOR THE LATEST FOX NEWS REPORTING ON THE TRUMP TRANSITION
Florida Governor Ron DeSantis waves from the stage on Day 2 of the Republican National Convention, at the Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on July 16, 2024.(REUTERS/Elizabeth Frantz)
DeSantis is ""very much"" in contention to replace Hegseth, multiple sources told Fox News.
One source added that it was the president-elect himself who floated the governor's name, and that Trump and DeSantis discussed the idea as they met Tuesday while appearing together in Florida at a memorial service for fallen law enforcement officers in Palm Beach County.
CLICK HERE FOR A FULL LIST OF WHOM TRUMP'S PICKED TO STEER HIS ADMINISTRATION
The reporting from Fox News and other organizations comes as Hegseth on Wednesday returns to Capitol Hill to continue meeting with Republican senators as he makes his case for confirmation asdefense secretary.
Pete Hegseth, President-elect Donald Trump's pick for secretary of defense, speaks with reporters following a meeting with senators on Capitol Hill, Thursday, Nov. 21, 2024, in Washington. (AP Photo/Rod Lamkey, Jr.)(AP Photo/Rod Lamkey, Jr.)
Hegseth, an Army National Guard officer who deployed to the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and who previously was a Fox News host, is facing a series of drinking and sexual misconduct allegations.
WHY BIDEN'S PARDON OF HIS SON IS A POLITICAL GIFT FOR TRUMP
Hegseth has denied allegations that he mistreated women.
""I spoke with the President-elect this morning. He said keep going, keep fighting,"" Hegseth told reporters as he arrived on Capitol Hill.
""Why would I back down? I have always been a fighter,"" he added.
But a top Trump ally in the Senate is concerned.
""He obviously has a chance to defend himself here. But some of this stuff is ¡V it¡¦s going to be difficult,"" Sen. Lindsey Graham, a longtime military veteran and South Carolina Republican, told reporters on Tuesday.
Hegseth's mother, Penelope Hegseth, appeared Wednesday on Fox and Friends to defend her son and ""set the record straight.""
""I am here to tell the truth. To tell the truth to the American people and tell the truth to senators on the hill, especially female senators. I really hope that you will not listen to the media and you will listen to Pete,"" she added.
President Donald J. Trump, a Secret Service member, his son Eric Trump, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis and his wife Casey DeSantis attend a memorial service for three fallen Palm Beach County Sheriff's deputies at the South Florida Fairgrounds, Tuesday December 03, 2024, in Palm Beach County.(Bill Ingram/Imagn)
If Trump moves ahead and nominates DeSantis and the governor is confirmed by the GOP-controlled Senate next year, it would lead to the ascension of Lt. Gov. Jeanette Nu_ez. She would make history as Florida's first female governor - and the first of Cuban descent.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Wall Street Journal was first to report the news that Trump is considering DeSantis for defense secretary.
Bret Baier currently serves as FOX News Channel's (FNC) anchor and executive editor ofSpecial Report with Bret Baier(weeknights at 6-7PM/ET), chief political anchor of the network and co-anchor of the network¡¦s election coverage. Baier is also host of FOX News Audio's ""The Bret Baier Podcast"" which includesCommon GroundandThe All-Star Panel. He joined FNC in 1998 as the first reporter in the Atlanta bureau and is now based in Washington, D.C."	4221	0
foxnews	Trump transition signs agreement for FBI background checks	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-transition-signs-agreement-fbi-background-checks	"Incoming Trump 'border czar' Tom Homan discusses New York City Mayor Eric Adams saying he wants illegal immigrants who are charged with crimes to be deported on 'Hannity.'
President-elect Trump's transition team has signed on to an agreement for the FBI to vet the incoming administration's cabinet nominees, the transition team announced Tuesday.
Trump's team saysit will ""submit names for background checks and security clearances,"" an agreement typically signed even before the election. The FBI historically vets each cabinet nominee and also handles security clearances, a process that could not begin until the agreement was made.
""This agreement with the Department of Justice will ensure President Trump and his team are ready on Day 1 to begin enacting the America First Agenda that an overwhelming majority of our nation supported on Election Day,"" incoming White House chief of staff Susie Wiles said in a statement.
A number of Republicans in the Senate had been apprehensive about the transition team's initial unwillingness to face FBI background checks, and several praised the Tuesday agreement.
WHO IS KASH PATEL? TRUMP'S PICK TO LEAD THE FBI HAS LONG HISTORY VOWING TO BUST UP 'DEEP STATE'
President-elect Trump has agreed to allow his cabinet nominees to undergo vetting by the FBI.(Allison Robbert-Pool/Getty Images)
""I think that¡¦s good ¡V¡V it¡¦ll save them some headache,"" said Sen. Kevin Cramer, R-N.D., according to Politico. ""And it¡¦ll give the public and senators a little comfort, I think, so I¡¦m glad to hear that.""
DOJ SETTLES WITH FORMER FBI OFFICIALS OVER RELEASE OF ANTI-TRUMP TEXTS
Trump and his allies have been openly critical of the FBI both on the campaign trail and since the election.Kash Patel,Trump's nominee to lead the organization, has been a crusader against the ""deep state"" since Trump's first term and has echoed Republican claims that Democrats have ""weaponized"" the FBI.
A side-by-side of Kash Patel and President-elect Donald Trump.(Getty Images)
TRUMP'S SPEEDY CABINET PICKS SHOW HIS 'PRIORITY TO PUT AMERICA FIRST,' TRANSITION TEAM SAYS
""Kash did an incredible job during my First Term, where he served as Chief of Staff at the Department of Defense, Deputy Director of National Intelligence, and Senior Director for Counterterrorism at the National Security Council. Kash has also tried over 60 jury trials,"" Trump posted to Truth Social on Sunday.
""This FBI will end the growing crime epidemic in America, dismantle the migrant criminal gangs, and stop the evil scourge of human and drug trafficking across the Border. Kash will work under our great Attorney General, Pam Bondi, to bring back Fidelity, Bravery, and Integrity to the FBI,"" he added.
FBI Director Christopher Wray is set to be replaced by Kash Patel, who worked in the Pentagon during Trump's first term.(Alex Wong/Getty Images)
Patel¡¦s name spread across news reports as he became known as the man behind the ""Nunes Memo,"" a four-page document from then-Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., released in 2018 that revealed improper use ofsurveillance by the FBI and theJustice Department in the Russia investigation into Trump.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
""If they had gotten it right in the first place, when Devin and I and so many others were actually putting out the truth, instead of serving as a disinformation machine for the left-wing agenda, there would be no reassessment,"" Patel told Fox News Digital of the memo last year. ""They could not have done their work in the deep state without their partners in the mainstream media, who are part of that deep state.""
Fox News' Emma Colton contributed to this report.
Anders Hagstrom is a reporter with Fox News Digital covering national politics and major breaking news events. Send tips to Anders.Hagstrom@Fox.com, or on Twitter: @Hagstrom_Anders."	3819	0
foxnews	Democratic challenger Adam Gray flips California's 13th Congressional District in nation's final House race	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/democratic-challenger-adam-gray-flips-californias-13th-congressional-district-nations-final-house-race	"Fox News senior congressional correspondent Chad Pergram reports on the importance of attendance in the 119th Congress on 'Special Report.'
Democrat Adam Gray has wonCalifornia's 13th Congressional Districtrace by a mere 187 votes, defeating incumbent Republican Rep. John Duarte, according to The Associated Press.
California's 13th Congressional District was the last seat to be called, with the district being one of the most competitive races in the Golden State. Republicans maintained the majority with 220 U.S. House seats, and Democrats at 215.
Gray was the ninth Democrat to flip a House seat in the 2024 election, while the GOP flipped eight seats ¡V slipping the Republican majority. Three Republican members ¡V Elise Stefanik, Michael Waltz and Matt Gaetz ¡V were picked for the incoming Trump administration, though Gaetz withdrew his name from consideration, and it may take several months to fill those seats.
Gray, a formerstate legislatorwho represented California's 21st Assembly District from 2012 to 2022, is considered a centrist Democrat who focused on key concerns for farmers in the Central Valley like water shortages. He also campaigned on renewable energy solutions.
HOUSE DEM MOVES TO FORCE VOTE ON RELEASING GAETZ ETHICS REPORT
Republican Rep. John Duarte, left, and Democrat Adam Gray.(Fresno Bee file/Tribune News Service via Getty Images)
In astatement on X, Gray wrote that the long-awaited results were confirmation that residents were ready for ""independent and accountable leadership.""
""I'm honored to become the Congressman-elect for California's 13th Congressional District. The final results confirm this district is ready for independent and accountable leadership that always puts the Valley's people ahead of partisan politics,"" he wrote. ""But the work has just begun.""
SINGLE HOUSE RACE STANDS BETWEEN REPUBLICANS AND 1-SEAT MAJORITY
""In Washington, I'll work everyday to deliver the resources that the Valley needs: clean water, better educational opportunities, stronger infrastructure, and more good-paying jobs,"" he wrote. ""And you can count on me to build bipartisan relationships to accomplish these goals.""
A view of the California state capitol building on National Urban League California Legislative Advocacy Day on March 13, 2024 in Sacramento, California.(Arturo Holmes/Getty Images for National Urban League)
The racehas been characterized as one of the tightest in the country. In 2022, Duarte narrowly defeated Gray by just 564 votes.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Duarte, a businessman and farmer, focused on issues like inflation, crime and agricultural issues during his campaign.
Jamie Joseph is a writer who covers politics. She leads Fox News Digital coverage of the Senate."	2740	0
foxnews	5 wild ways Democrats have embraced the Monty Python strategy of politics	https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/5-wild-ways-democrats-have-embraced-monty-python-strategy-politics	"Dr. Drew Pinsky analyzes the left¡¦s reaction to President-elect Trump¡¦s victory and how to handle people experiencing ¡¥extreme delusion¡¦ on ¡¥Hannity.¡¦
President-electTrump¡¦s election victorywas a disaster for the left ¡V their worst Electoral College result since Bush the Elder coattailed Ronald Reagan in 1988. But rather than accept it and try to move forward, leftists and the journalists who love them are choosing another option ¡V running away.
Some want to run away from things that make them uncomfortable ¡V like social media or media they thought friendly only days before ¡V while others want to send in the Mayflower moving vans. Either way, the new motto for the far left should be, ""Run away!"" in all of itsMonty Python glory.
Here are the five worst examples of the left doing their own great escape:
When confronted with danger, the characters in the 1975 comedy film ""Monty Python and the Holy Grail"" would cry, ""Run away!"" and then do just that. (Warner Bros./Hulton Archive/Getty Images)
Leftists have been fleeing Twitter/X ever since Elon Musk first talked about buying it. Twitter quitters have run to Threads and Mastodon and nowthe latest, Bluesky. Some of the most memorable social media voices for liberal lunacy have flown the coop and gone to the new platform. Actress Alyssa Milano, actor Mark Hamill, author Stephen King and former CNN anchor Don Lemon all hit the bricks.
JOE ROGAN ASKS TO TAKE RACHEL MADDOW'S JOB IF ELON MUSK BUYS MSNBC
They weren¡¦t alone. Some prominent businesses like 3M and Balenciaga joined them, along with media outlets like the Guardian and the taxpayer-funded leftists at NPR. The Hollywood Reporter delivered the typical media assessment: ""¡¥Bluesky Has the Juice¡¦: Celebrities Flee ¡¥Toxic¡¦ X for Rival Social Media Site."" (Yes, free speech is ""toxic,"" but a leftist bubble is juicy. No bias at all.)
And, as soon as they got to their new home, they complained that it, too, was toxic. Bluesky¡¦s overworked safety team posted this on Nov. 15, during the exodus: ""In the past 24 hours, we have received more than 42,000 reports (an all-time high for one day). We¡¦re receiving about 3,000 reports/hour. To put that into context, in all of 2023, we received 360k reports.""
As Tim Curry sang in ""Rocky Horror Picture Show,"" ""'Cause I've seen blue skies through the tears in my eyes."" It looks like liberal tears are the reality wherever they go for the next four years.
Leftists aren¡¦t just running from social media, they are escaping fromÿ MSNBC? The far-left network experienced a ratings collapse as its viewers did their best impression of two of three legendary wise monkeys ¡V deciding to hear no evil and see no evil.
LIBERALS RAGE AGAINST 'MORNING JOE' 'BETRAYAL' AFTER CO-HOSTS MEET WITH TRUMP: 'WE WILL NOT FORGIVE'
The Wrap reported that MSNBC viewership was ""seeing a 48% decline following the election."" Then there¡¦s the far-left freakout as thenetwork¡¦s ""Morning Joe"" co-hostsJoe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski met with The Donald. The New York Post reported that the duo delivered ""their lowest-rated program since 2021.""
And the mob came for them, as well. Washington Post media writer Erik Wempe wrote, ""Five reasons Democrats should turn off ¡¥Morning Joe.¡¦"" The paper¡¦sunhinged lefty columnist Jen Rubinposted on Bluesky, ""You can stop watching Morning Joe anytime."" A Salon commentary declared, ""¡¥Morning Joe¡¦ has got to go."" And journalism professor Jeff Jarvis also posted on Bluesky, ""Hmmm. What else are liberals leaving?..."" above a screenshot of ""Morning Joe"" talking about the defections from Twitter.
Viewers aren¡¦t the only ones fleeing MSNBC. Its owners are doing the same. Comcast, which owns MSNBC, CNBC and a bunch of other cable channels like USA, SYFY and E!, is spinning them off into a separate company. But since it won¡¦t be part of the NBC Universal universe, the ""news"" channels could also lose their names. And who knows whether NBC staff will still appear or not.
Host Rachel Maddow even agreed to take a pay cut from her massive salary, dropping from $30 million to $25 million a year to keep her failing network going. The network wanted to keep her, especially given the bad viewership numbers. One exec reportedly called her ""ratings Viagra.""
CLICK HERE FOR MORE FOX NEWS OPINION
The one man who might be running toward MSNBC could be the world's top billionaire ¡V Elon Musk. When Donald Trump Jr. suggested on Twitter ""the funniest idea ever!!!"" for Musk to buy the network, Musk¡¦s immediate response was the same he gave when first asked about buying Twitter: ""How much does it cost?"" Bosses say it's not for sale. But maybe Elon will give them an offer they can't refuse.
Every election, some celebrity leftist claims he or she will leave America if their side doesn¡¦t win. This election, somebody followed through.Former talk show host Ellen Degeneresand her wife Portia de Rossi have decamped to Merry Ol¡¦ England.
Of course, that barely touches on the lengthy list of celebs who said they would leave on a jet plane. Those include actresses America Ferrera and Sharon Stone as well asentertainers Cher and Barbra Streisand.If they do go, don¡¦t expect them to suffer. The Biden-Harris economy made it tough for ordinary Americans to buy food, much less move. Millionaire libs weren¡¦t impacted much.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Florida-based Villa Vie Residences announced the true, getaway-from-Trump cruise package. ""[S]tarting at just under $40,000 per year"" you can cruise around the world and avoid Trump the Sequel entirely. That¡¦s the ""4-Year Skip Forward"" package.
Their press release says: ""extraordinary Continual World Cruise invites travelers to discover more than 425 ports in over 140 countries across all seven continents as it circumnavigates the globe every three and a half years."" For $160,000-plus, you can see the world and avoid Trump, but you¡¦d better pray to Gaia that JD Vance doesn¡¦t win in 2028. And be sure to pack a lifetime¡¦s supply of seasickness pills, just in case.
CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM DAN GAINOR
Dan Gainor is a freelance opinion editor for Fox News Digital."	6110	1
foxnews	"Before Biden pardoned Hunter, the media speculated Trump would pardon his children ahead of leaving office"	https://www.foxnews.com/media/before-biden-pardoned-hunter-media-speculated-trump-would-pardon-his-children-ahead-leaving-office	"Fox News host Laura Ingraham reacts to President Biden pardoning his son Hunter Biden after previously saying he wouldn't on 'The Ingraham Angle.'
Four years before President Biden shocked the nation with the pardon of his son Hunter, thelegacy mediawildly theorized that President-elect Donald Trump would pardon his own children before he left office in January 2021.
On Dec. 1, 2020,The New York Timesran the headline ""Trump Has Discussed With Advisers Pardons for His 3 Eldest Children and Giuliani,"" alleging that the then-president was mulling ""pre-emptive pardons"" to Donald Trump Jr., Eric Trump, Ivanka Trump as well as his son-in-law Jared Kushner. The report even alleged that Trump was considering issuing pardons ""for crimes they have not yet committed ¡X essentially a prospective get-out-of-jail-free card.""
Ultimately, Trump never issued pardons for his adult children nor Giuliani but other news organizations followed the Times' lead.
""If you had to build a 2020 time capsule in advance, this is probably something that you would have invented to put into the 2020 time capsule,"" MSNBC star Rachel Maddow told viewers with a grin while holding up a copy of the Times report.
MSNBC and CNN went wall to wall hyping the Times report.
HUNTER BIDEN PARDON: MEDIA TAKES BLOW TO CREDIBILITY WITH BOTCHED COVERAGE OF BROKEN PROMISE
The media pushed the narrative that then-President Trump was considering issuing pardons for his children before leaving office in January 2021.(Leigh Vogel/Polaris/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
CNN ran a similar report titled ""The legal threats and headaches fueling pardon appeals from Trump¡¦s family and friends,"" noting ""Trump¡¦s three eldest children have faced various legal entanglements"" over the years, citing Don Jr. and Kushner's involvement in the Trump Tower meeting with Russians who claimed to have had dirt on Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election, which was investigated by Special Counsel Robert Mueller. Neither Don Jr. nor Kushner were ever charged with any crimes by Mueller.
""In our politics lead now, a source tells CNN that President Trump, the outgoing president, is discussing preemptive pardons for people close to him. That could include his three eldest children, Don jr. Ivanka and Eric, his son in law, Jared Kushner and his personal attorney, rudy giuliani, none of whom, as of this afternoon, have been even charged with. much less convicted of any crime,"" CNN's Jake Tapper said on air.
""Is the president now considering pardons for members of the Trump family, including himself? ABC News' David Muir teased at the beginning of ""World News Tonight.""
""Pardoning the presidents kids? Why President Trump and his top allies believe Ivanka, Jared, Don Jr, and Eric, could need what¡¦s being called a preemptive pardon,"" Norah O'Donnell of ""CBS Evening News"" said to viewers.
HUNTER BIDEN ¡¥LAPTOP FROM HELL¡¦ SCANDAL TURNS 4: HOW MEDIA, INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MISLED AMERICANS
NBC News ran the headline ""President Trump has discussed possibility of pardons for family members, sources say,"" telling readers ""One source said the conversations in recent days were within the context of a president who feels embattled, and not because Trump believes he or any of his family members had done anything illegal.""
The Peacock network published a follow-up report asking ""Could Trump pardon family members if they haven't been charged with crimes?"" to which it answered ""undoubtedly yes.""
President Biden raised eyebrows with his sweeping pardon of his son Hunter after promising he wouldn't issue one.((AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana)
Washington Post columnist Philip Bump posed a similar question and answer, ""How much protection can Trump offer his family with his pardon power? A lot.""
""There¡¦s not much risk to Trump in attempting to grant such a blanket pardon. He might issue a sweepingly broad pardon ¡X say, giving Jared Kushner a pass on any federal crimes committed from the moment of his birth until the moment the pardon was issued ¡X with the understanding that, should someone seek to prosecute Kushner, they would have to persuade a court to let them do so,"" Bump wrote. ""They might be able to do that, particularly if the pardon is as vague as the one just mentioned. But, from Trump¡¦s perspective, what¡¦s the harm in trying? Particularly since there¡¦s no accountability mechanism in place to prevent Trump from doing so.""
HUNTER BIDEN SAYS HIS MISTAKES WERE ¡¥EXPLOITED¡¦ FOR POLITICAL SPORT, SAYS HE WON'T TAKE PARDON FOR GRANTED
NPR also delved into Trump's legal powers with the story titled ""Talk Of 'Preemptive' Pardons By Trump Raises Questions: What Can He Do?"" featuring an image of Don Jr. at the top.
Vanity Fair was far more presumptive, running the headline ""Of Course Trump Is Going To Pardon Jared, Ivanka, and Maybe Even Don Jr.""
The liberal news blog Slate even speculated that Trump pardoning his children could ""make him a bigger criminal target,"" writing ""If Trump were to distribute such broadly worded pardons liberally among his circle, he would make them all subject to subpoena to testify about not only their own conduct, but his.""
Vanity Fair said ""of course"" Trump would pardon his eldest children before he left office.(Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
Biden sparked backlash from both sides of the aisle for hissweeping pardon of Hunterafter repeatedly saying he wouldn't.
The pardon he ordered Sunday night covers crimes his son ""has committed or may have committed"" from Jan. 1, 2014 to Dec. 1, 2024.
""Today, I signed a pardon for my son Hunter,"" Biden wrote in a statement. ""From the day I took office, I said I would not interfere with the Justice Department¡¦s decision-making, and I kept my word even as I have watched my son being selectively, and unfairly, prosecuted.""
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Biden also referenced his son's battle with addiction and blamed ""raw politics"" for the unraveling of Hunter's plea deal.
""There has been an effort to break Hunter ¡V who has been five and a half years sober, even in the face of unrelenting attacks and selective prosecution,"" the 82-year-old father wrote. ""In trying to break Hunter, they¡¦ve tried to break me ¡V and there¡¦s no reason to believe it will stop here. Enough is enough.""
Fox News' Emma Colton and Andrea Margolis contributed to this report.
Joseph A. Wulfsohn is a media reporter for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to joseph.wulfsohn@fox.com and on Twitter: @JosephWulfsohn."	6457	0
foxnews	Supreme Court to weigh state ban on transgender 'medical treatments' for minors	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/supreme-court-weigh-state-ban-transgender-medical-treatments-minors	"Fox News senior congressional correspondent Chad Pergram reports on Congress¡¦ Supreme Court tension on 'Fox News Sunday.'
TheSupreme Court will heararguments Wednesday in a high-profile case involving the right of transgender minors to receive gender transition care, such as puberty blockers and hormone therapy, in one of the most closely watched, potentially impactful cases slated to come before the high court this year.
The case, United States v. Skrmetti,centers on a Tennessee lawthat bans gender-transition treatments for adolescents in the state. The law also takes aim at health care providers in Tennessee who continue to provide gender-transition treatments to transgender minors, opening them up to fines, lawsuits and other liability.
The petitioners in the case are the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), which sued to overturn the Tennessee law on behalf of parents of three transgender adolescents, and a Memphis-based doctor who treats transgender patients. The petitioners were also joined by the Biden administration earlier this year under a federal law that allows the administration to intervene in certain cases certified by the attorney general to be of ""general public importance.""
The petitioners argue the law violates the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment. The state has responded by insisting the law does not discriminate based on gender, arguing it sets parameters on age- and use-based restrictions on certain drugs and is thereforenot a violation of the Constitution.
BIDEN'S SWEEPING HUNTER PARDON AT ODDS WITH LONGTIME RHETORIC ON EXECUTIVE POWER: 'NO ONE IS ABOVE THE LAW'
Pro-transgender protesters rally for inclusion. Petitioners in U.S. v. Skrmetti will argue before the Supreme Court that transgender individuals have all the hallmarks of a ""quasi-suspect class"" under the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment.(Mark Kerrison/In Pictures via Getty Images)
According to the U.S. Supreme Court website, the key question posed in the case is ""whether Tennessee Senate Bill 1 (SBl), which prohibits all medical treatments intended to allow 'a minor to identify with, or live as, a purported identity inconsistent with the minor's sex' or to treat 'purported discomfort or distress from a discordance between the minor's sex and asserted identity,' Tenn. Code Ann. ¡± 68-33-103(a)(1), violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.""
Wednesday's oral arguments mark the first time the Supreme Court will consider restrictions on puberty blockers, hormone therapy and surgery for minors, giving the case importance in Tennessee and in other states across the country.
Tennessee passedits law, Senate Bill 1, in March 2023. But it is just one of at least 25 U.S. states that has banned gender transition care for transgender adolescents, making the case ¡X and Wednesday's oral arguments ¡X one of the most high-profile cases to be heard this session.
The oral arguments have beenanticipated for months.The controversial case comes at a time in Washington when Republicans will regain control of the White House and both chambers of Congress next month, giving them heavy influence and, some fear, more control over the federal judiciary.
Here's what you need to know ahead of Wednesday's oral arguments.
Who's arguing the case?
The petitioners will be represented by U.S. Solicitor General Elizabeth Prelogar and Chase Strangio, an ACLU attorney who represented the original parties in the lawsuit.
Strangio, the deputy director for transgender justice for the ACLU¡¦s LGBTQ and HIV Project, will be the first openly transgender person to argue before the Supreme Court.
The respondents in the case, namely the state of Tennessee, will be represented in court by Tennessee Solicitor General J. Matthew Rice and the state attorney general, Jonathan Skrmetti.
In a court filing submitted ahead of Wednesday's oral arguments, Prelogar's office argued the Tennessee law has a deliberate focus on ""sex and gender conformity,"" asserting Senate Bill 1 ""declares that its very purpose is to ¡¥encourag[e] minors to appreciate their sex' and to ban treatments ¡¥that might encourage minors to become disdainful of their sex.'""
""That,"" the federal government wrote, ""is sex discrimination.""
Counsel for the petitioners willargue that the Tennessee lawimposes ""differential treatment based on the sex an individual is assigned at birth,"" triggering a higher level of scrutiny under the Equal Protection Clause of the Constitution.
HUNTER BIDEN GUN CASE TERMINATED AFTER PARDON, BUT FEDERAL JUDGE STOPS SHORT OF FULL DISMISSAL
They will also argue that upholding the ban will represent a ""dangerous and discriminatory affront"" to transgender minors not just in Tennessee, but across the country, a point that has been emphasized by Strangio.
The state argued in a court filing that the law ""contains no sex classification"" warranting the heightened scrutiny under the Equal Protection Clause. Rather, it said, it ""creates two groups: minors seeking drugs for gender transition and minors seeking drugs for other medical purposes.""
The question of scrutiny
The Supreme Court has determined three different levels of scrutiny that help determine whether a law is permissible under the Equal Protection Clause of the Constitution: Strict scrutiny, heightened scrutiny and rational basis. The highest level, strict scrutiny, requires a law be passed to serve a compelling government interest and be narrowly tailored to minimize harm.
The second level of scrutiny, or ""heightened scrutiny,"" requires the governmental body to prove its actions further an ""important government interest"" by using means ""substantially related to that interest.""
The lowest bar, rational basis, is the most deferential of the tests and requires the law only serve a legitimate interest with a ""rational connection"" to the means and goals of the statute.
The U.S. Supreme Court at sunset(Aaron Schwartz/SIPA USA)
Overview of the arguments
Wednesday's oral arguments will center on whether banning gender transition care for minors violates protections under the Equal Protection Clause, either via gender discrimination or discrimination against their transgender status.
The petitioners in the case will argue that the Tennessee law discriminates against individuals and their right to receive the same medical treatments based on their sex. Under the law, the petitioners argued in their court filing, ""an adolescent assigned female at birth cannot receive puberty blockers or testosterone to live as a male, but an adolescent assigned male at birth can.""
TRUMP'S AG PICK HAS ¡¥HISTORY OF CONSENSUS BUILDING¡¦
Separately, they will argue that discriminating against individuals based on their transgender status is also sufficient to trigger higher scrutiny under the Equal Protection Clause, noting that transgender individuals ""satisfy all of the hallmarks of a quasi-suspect class,"" including being subject to discrimination, representing a ""discrete and identifiable minority"" and other components outlined by the Supreme Court, thereby necessitating that heightened scrutiny be applied.
The respondents will argue that Senate Bill 1, places age- and use-based restrictions on certain drugs and, therefore, is not an example of unconstitutional discrimination.
Further, they will argue that the law easily passes even the test of heightened scrutiny. The state contends it has ""compelling interests"" to protect the health and safety of minors in the state and ""in protecting the integrity and ethics of the medical profession.""
The U.S. Supreme Court(Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)
Case history
U.S. District Judge Eli Richardson, a Trump appointee, granted a preliminary inunction for part of the Tennessee ban in June, siding with the petitioners' assertion that ""parents have a fundamental right to direct the medical care of their children, which naturally includes the right of parent[s] to request certain medical treatments on behalf of their children[.]""
He said the ban on most types of gender care for transgender minors would likely not survive the heightened scrutiny test under the Equal Protection Clause, since the same treatments were not banned for their non-transgender peers.
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit later overturned the district court's decision and reinstated the full ban, using the lowest test of rational basis. The petitioners appealed that decision to the Supreme Court, which agreed in June to review the case.
The petitioners have asked the Supreme Court to remand the case to the 6th Circuit Court to hear it again, this time using the test of heightened scrutiny.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Strangio hasrepeatedly stressedthe wide-ranging impact the Supreme Court decision could have on ""countless transgender youth"" of current and future generations and has described the bans as a ""dangerous and discriminatory affront to the well-being of transgender youth across the country.""
Next steps
The Supreme Court is expected to rule on United States v. Skrmetti by July 2025. The Supreme Court typically issues summer decisions on cases argued during the October term.
Breanne Deppisch is a politics reporter for Fox News Digital covering the 2024 election and other national news."	9277	0
foxnews	"Faith in DOJ plummets as Biden, pardoning Hunter, joins Trump in denouncing the department"	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/faith-doj-plummets-biden-pardoning-hunter-joins-trump-denouncing-department	"Senior political analyst Juan Williams joined 'MediaBuzz' to discuss why some Democrats are blaming the party's far-left 'woke' stance for Kamala Harris' presidential election loss.
Let¡¦s face it, trust in most of our government institutions has utterly collapsed.
Many people don¡¦t have faith in the FDA, the DOD, HUD, Homeland Security, the health agencies, and the list goes on. And they don¡¦t trust the media to deliver basic facts about Washington without bias and blunders.
These sentiments have basically been growing for the last 60 years, since the lies about Vietnam merged with the lies about Watergate and forced Richard Nixon to resign.
BIDEN, TRUMP BOTH RIP DOJ AFTER PRESIDENT PARDONS HUNTER
But the most sensitive federal agency, everyone would agree, is theJustice Department, including the FBI. Donald Trump has been attacking these agencies for years (along with the ""fake news""), accusing them of politically persecuting him. He campaigned outside courthouses by telling reporters the prosecutors and judges were awful people who were out to get him solely because he was the leading candidate to win back the White House.
Joe Biden, by breaking his promise not to pardon his son Hunter, did more than just lie. He ripped his own DOJ for ""selectively and unfairly prosecuting"" his son.
I used to patrol the endless hallways of the J. Edgar Hoover building as the Justice Department beat reporter. On the criminal side, it is supposed to be independent, since Justice often winds up investigating the administration. Back in the day it was filled with fair-minded career prosecutors who pursued legitimate leads regardless of party.
U.S. President Joe Biden and President-elect Donald Trump are pictured in front of the United States Department of Justice Headquarters.(Getty Images)
In sayingthat Hunter Bidenwas singled out for harsh treatment, the outgoing president is making the same argument as the incoming president, that the department is badly biased. Little wonder that so many people don¡¦t trust DOJ.
All Biden had to do when repeatedly asked about a pardon or commutation was ""I¡¦m not going to discuss hypotheticals."" Then at least he wouldn¡¦t have the lying part.
There is no question that Pam Bondi, despite some roughing up, will be the next attorney general, having precisely the experience (Florida AG, career prosecutor) that Matt Gaetz so blatantly lacked. She is not going to blow up the department.
But in picking Kash Patel torun the FBI¡V and ignoring that Chris Wray is not through with his 10-year term ¡V Trump is sending a very different message. And this isn¡¦t some dark secret. It¡¦s in the nominee¡¦s own words.
TRUMP HIT FOR HIRING LOYALISTS LIKE PAM BONDI: DOESN¡¦T EVERY PRESIDENT DO THAT?
Patel has vowed to shut down the bureau¡¦s Washington headquarters. He said last year on Steve Bannon¡¦s podcast, which we played on ""Media Buzz"": ""We will go out and find the conspiratorsÿnot just in government, but in the media.ÿ Whether it¡¦s criminally or civilly, we¡¦ll figure that out.""
In his 2022 book ""Government Gangsters,"" Patel names 60 people as part of the deep state,  ""a cabal of unelected tyrantsÿthe most dangerous threat to our democracy."" The press has dubbed this an enemies list.
It includes the aforementioned Bill Barr (for blocking his appointment), NSC chairman John Bolton (an ""arrogant control freak""), and Defense Secretary Mark Esper (who tried to fire him).
Hunter Biden, son of U.S. President Joe Biden departs the J. Caleb Boggs Federal Building on June 03, 2024 in Wilmington, Delaware.(Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)
Also on the list, as recounted by the New Republic:
Joe Biden.
Kamala Harris.
Hillary Clinton.
Merrick Garland.
Samantha Power, who now runs the Agency for International Development.
Former Obama officials James Clapper; John Brennan; Peter Strzok (who trashed Trump in texts with his FBI girlfriend, Lisa Page), Andrew McCabe (FBI deputy director), Eric Holder and Loretta Lynch.
A striking number areDonald Trump¡¦s own appointees: Pat Cippolone (his White House counsel). Gina Haspel (his CIA director). Mark Esper. Charles Kupperman (his deputy national security adviser).
TRUMP DROPPED MATT GAETZ AFTER COMPLAINING ABOUT HIGH POLITICAL COST OF DEFENDING HIM
Cassidy Hutchinson (Mark Meadows¡¦ top aide, who criticized Trump in her testimony before the House Jan. 6 committee).
It¡¦s a pretty big list. And having worked for Trump hardly provides immunity.
Patel would have his work cut out for him, though he¡¦d have to get a career prosecutor to submit a wiretap request or search warrant to the courts.
Meanwhile, manyDemocratic lawmakersare hitting their party¡¦s president pretty hard for the Hunter pardon, in interviewswith the Times.
Colorado Congressman Jason Crow: He promised he would not do this. I think it will make it harder for us going forward when we talk about upholding democracy.""
Washington Congresswoman Marie Gluesenkamp Perez: ""The president made the wrong decision. No family should be above the law.""
The U.S. Department of Justice seal is displayed following a news conference in Washington, D.C., U.S. on Thursday, Dec. 20, 2018.(Yuri Gripas/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
Colorado Sen. Michael Bennet said the Biden move ""put personal interest ahead of duty and further erodes Americans¡¦ faith that the justice system is fair and equal for all."" And his late dropout from the race was also ""putting his personal interest ahead of his responsibility to the country.""
Vermont Sen. Peter Welch: ""President Biden¡¦s pardon of his son Hunter is, as the action of a loving father, understandable ¡X but as the action of our nation¡¦s chief executive, unwise.""
Michigan Sen. Gary Peters: ""Wrong.""
Pretty bracing stuff.
Some progressives defended Biden, such as Texas Congresswoman Jasmine Crockett: ""Way to go Joe!"" She said a 34-count convicted felon is about to walk into the White House, perhaps missing the news that Jack Smith has dropped the charges.
On ""Morning Joe"" yesterday, Mika Brzezinski, while saying she wished Biden hadn¡¦t promised no pardon, took on the coverage: ""You look at what has happened on the Trump side, especially if you even parallel pardons that Trump has done himself, it¡¦s just always so ¡X it seems so hysterically imbalanced!""
Joe Scarborough spoke of ""the frustration that many Democrats are having on the New York Times, The Washington Post, the Wall Street Journal, a lot of mainstream organizations blowing this up to the size that they believe is really out of proportion, given everything Donald Trump has done in the past and what he¡¦s doing right now.""
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Still, the two presidents have wound up in the same place in their view of the Justice Department as partisan and politicized.
One fascinating tidbit dug up by the Times: When Biden had Trump to the White House, according to three sources, and listened to his familiar grievances about the biased DOJ ¡V the president-elect ""surprised his host by sympathizing with the Biden family¡¦s own troubles with the department.""
Howard Kurtz is the host of FOX News Channel'sMediaBuzz(Sundays 11 a.m.-12 p.m. ET). Based in Washington, D.C., he joined the network in July 2013 and regularly appears onSpecial Report with Bret Baierand other programs."	7269	
foxnews	Federal judge accuses President Biden of attempting to 'rewrite history' in Hunter Biden pardon	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/federal-judge-accuses-president-biden-attempting-rewrite-history-hunter-biden-pardon	"Fox News senior national correspondent Rich Edson has more on Democrats' reaction to President Biden's decision to pardon his son on 'Special Report.'
The federal judge overseeing Hunter Biden¡¦s tax case issued a sharp rebuke ofPresident Biden'sclaim that his son was unfairly treated as well as the president's delivery method following the president's last-minute pardon.
U.S. District Judge Mark Scarsi, who is based in the Central District of California and was nominated by President-elect Trump, accused President Biden in a scathing five-page order of ""rewriting history"" with the pardon and suggested that the breadth of the pardon granted to his son is unconstitutional.
""The Constitution provides the President with broad authority to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States, but nowhere does the Constitution give the President the authority to rewrite history,"" he wrote.
BIDEN PARDONS SON HUNTER BIDEN AHEAD OF EXIT FROM OVAL OFFICE
Hunter Biden departs a House Oversight Committee meeting on Capitol Hill on January 10. On Friday, a judge denied a motion to throw out a federal gun case against him.(Kent Nishimura/Getty Images)
The judge voiced his displeasure that the president alerted the judicial system of his order to pardon his son via aWhite House press release.
""Rather than providing a true and correct copy of the pardon with the notice, Mr. Biden provided a hyperlink to a White House press release presenting a statement by the President regarding the pardon and the purported text of the pardon,"" he wrote.
""In short, a press release is not a pardon,"" he continued.
READ ¡V APP USERSCLICK HERE:
Scarsi continued, reacting to the president's statement on hisson's tax case: ""the President asserts that Mr. Biden ¡¥was treated differently¡¦ from others ¡¥who were late paying their taxes because of serious addictions,¡¦ implying that Mr. Biden was among those individuals who untimely paid taxes due to addiction. But he is not.""
""According to the President, ¡¥[n]o reasonable person who looks at the facts of [Mr. Biden¡¦s] cases can reach any other conclusion than [Mr. Biden] was singled out only because he is [the President¡¦s] son.¡¦ But two federal judges expressly rejected Biden¡¦s arguments that the Government prosecuted Mr. Biden because of his familial relation to the President. And the President¡¦s own Attorney General and Department of Justice personnel oversaw the investigation leading to the charges,"" Scarsi wrote.
2 TIMES BIDEN SAID HE WOULD NOT PARDON SON HUNTER BIDEN
""In the President¡¦s estimation, this legion of federal civil servants, the undersigned included, are unreasonable people,"" he said.
Hunter Biden, son of U.S. President Joe Biden, departs the J. Caleb Boggs Federal Building on June 03, 2024 in Wilmington, Delaware. Biden is standing trial for felony gun charges.(Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)
The judge said he would dispose of the case once he receives the official pardon from ""the appropriate executive agency.""
He also vacated Hunter Biden¡¦s sentencing, which was scheduled for Dec. 16.  The charges carried up to 17 years behind bars, but the first son would likely have faced a much shorter sentence under federal sentencing guidelines.
TRUMP PREVIOUSLY PREDICTED BIDEN WOULD PARDON SON HUNTER
""Subject to the following discussion, the Court assumes the pardon is effective and will dispose of the case.The Supreme Courtlong has recognized that, notwithstanding its nearly unlimited nature, the pardon power extends only to past offenses,"" he wrote.
FILE: President Joe Biden, wearing a Team USA jacket and walking with his son Hunter Biden, heads toward Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, July 26, 2024.(AP Photo/Susan Walsh)
Hunter Biden, 54, has had a busy year in court, kicking off his first trial in Delaware in June, when he faced three felony firearm offenses, before he pleaded guilty in a separate felony tax case in September.
President Biden pardoninghis son is a departure from his previous remarks to the media over the summer when he insisted he would not pardon the first son.
""Yes,"" President Biden told ABC News when asked if he would rule out pardoning Hunter ahead of his guilty verdict in the gun case.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Days later, following a jury of Hunter¡¦s peers finding him guilty of three felony firearm offenses, the president again said he would not pardon his son.
""I am not going to do anything,"" Biden said after Hunter was convicted. ""I will abide bythe jury¡¦s decision.""
Fox News Digital has reached out to the White House for comment.
Fox News Digital's Emma Colton and Andrea Margolis contributed to this report.
Sarah Rumpf-Whitten is a breaking news writer for Fox News Digital and Fox Business.
Story tips and ideas can be sent to sarah.rumpf@fox.com and on X:@s_rumpfwhitten."	4853	0
foxnews	"'Obama bros' trash Biden for making defenders look 'stupid' with Hunter pardon: 'Typical, lying politician'"	https://www.foxnews.com/media/obama-bros-trash-biden-making-defenders-look-stupid-hunter-pardon-typical-lying-politician	"Trump-Vance transition senior adviser Jason Miller gives his take on President Biden¡¦s pardon for his son and recent attacks on Trump Cabinet nominees, during an appearance on ¡¥Fox & Friends.¡¦
Three former aides to President Obama railed againstPresident Bidenfor ""lying"" and making his defenders ""look like they're full of s---"" by pardoning his son Hunter after previously saying he would not do so.
Jon Favreau, Jon Lovett and Tommy Vietor, who were often referred to as the ""Obama bros"" during their tenure in the White House, discussed the ramifications of Biden's pardon of his son, on their ""Pod Save America"" podcaston Tuesday.
Vietor said he understood Biden's decision on a ""human level,"" but was frustrated that the president had made his defenders within the Democratic Party look ""stupid"" by reneging on his pledge not to pardon his son.
""Now everyone looks stupid. Everyone looks like they are full of s---,"" Vietor said. ""And Republicans are going to use this to argue it was politics as usual when Democrats warned of Trump's corruption or threat to the rule or the threat to democracy. And I think that's the piece of this I am most frustrated with, which is Joe Biden looking like a typical,lying politician. And I think that leads to a cynical feeling that all politicians are bad. They are all the same and that this is just par for the course.""
TAPPER SAYS BIDEN LYING ABOUT PARDONING HUNTER MAKES HIS ADMIN AND ALLIES ¡¥EITHER CREDULOUS OR COMPLICIT¡¦
President Biden speaks to reporters outside of St. Edmond's Roman Catholic Church in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, Saturday, Aug. 31, 2024.(AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)
Biden had ""damaged his own reputation"" and ""damaged the Democratic Party's reputation,"" Vietor added.
Fellow co-host Jon Favreau called it ""most infuriating"" that Biden chose to pardon his son and not ""a whole bunch of other people who were just government servants doing their job,"" such asDr. Anthony Fauci.
Favreau said he believed Biden when he said he would not pardon his son and now he felt like a ""fool.""
""I believed him. I feel like a f---ing fool, that's what makes me mad about it,"" he admitted.
The president's pardon came after the first son was convicted in two separate federal cases earlier this year.
CLICK HERE FOR MORE COVERAGE OF MEDIA AND CULTURE
Jon Favreau, Jon Lovett and Tommy Vietor at Politicon at Pasadena Convention Center on July 29, 2017, in Pasadena, California.(John Sciulli/Getty Images for Politicon)
The younger Biden pleaded guilty to federal tax charges in September, and was convicted of three felony gun charges in June after lying on a mandatory gun purchase form by saying he was not illegally using or addicted to drugs.
The pardon spares Hunter Biden from his upcoming sentencing in the two cases, but also covers all potential crimes he ""has committed or may have committed"" from Jan. 1, 2014 to Dec. 1, 2024.
Lovett feared the sweeping pardon would give Republicans ammunition to argue that Biden was acting to protect himself fromallegations he profitedfrom his son's business dealings when he was vice president.
""Of course, conservatives are going to say, ¡¥See? Joe Biden is just protecting himself,'"" Lovett remarked.
The former Obama aides said there was no evidence that Biden profited but the appearance of it was damaging to the Democratic Party's reputation, nonetheless.
President Biden broke his repeated promise to not pardon his son, Hunter, announcing Sunday that he would pardon him.(BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP via Getty Images)
Biden should've framed the pardon as a proactive measure against concerns President-elect Trump would target his political enemies, Lovett argued.
The White House did not respond to a request for comment from Fox News Digital.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Fox News' Brandon Gillespie contributed to this report.
Kristine Parks is an associate editor for Fox News Digital. Read more."	3912	
foxnews	Watergate lawyer encourages Biden to pardon everyone on Trump's 'enemies list'	https://www.foxnews.com/media/watergate-lawyer-encourages-biden-pardon-everyone-trumps-enemies-list	"National Review senior writer Noah Rothman discusses Americans' reactions to President Biden pardoning his son Hunter on 'The Story.'
CNN contributor and Watergate figure John Dean is urging President Biden to expand his pardon list to sink any prospect of President-elect Donald Trump getting ""revenge"" against his political enemies.
Ina poston social media site Bluesky, Dean advised Biden to issue a ""blanket pardon"" for DOJ officials who have investigated or prosecuted Trump so he can¡¦t punish them once he gets into office.
""Biden should keep going with his pardons: Trump, Jack Smith & team, Mueller & team, and a blanket pardon for all on Trump¡¦s enemies list for any and all political statements before December 25, 2024! Merry Christmas,"" Deanwroteon Sunday.
Dean¡¦s post came shortly after Biden announced that he pardoned his son, Hunter, who was facing potentially significant prison time for federal tax evasion and gun convictions.
BIDEN'S SWEEPING HUNTER PARDON AT ODDS WITH LONGTIME RHETORIC ON EXECUTIVE POWER: 'NO ONE IS ABOVE THE LAW'
John Dean, former counsel to President Nixon, advised President Biden to pardon all of President-elect Trump's political enemies so he can't exact ""revenge"" on them when he gets back into office.
In announcing the pardon, the president criticized what he deemed the unfair investigation and prosecution of his son, a process he said was ""infected"" by politics and led to a ""miscarriage of justice.""
""No reasonable person who looks at the facts of Hunter¡¦s cases can reach any other conclusion than Hunter was singled out only because he is my son ¡X and that is wrong,"" President Biden said in a statement Sunday.
After Hunter Biden¡¦s pardon, the judge in his firearms case terminated the remainder of the proceedings. His sentencing date had beenscheduled for Dec. 12.
President Biden broke hisown repeated pledgethat he wouldn't pardon Hunter with the move.
Dean, who was former President Nixon¡¦s White House counsel during the Watergate scandal, wrote that pardoning Trump¡¦s enemies could be a way to ""take the wind out of retribution/revenge!""
BORDER STATE OFFERS TRUMP MASSIVE PLOT OF LAND TO AID MASS DEPORTATION OPERATION
President Biden and son Hunter Biden(BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP via Getty Images)
Dean's ""retribution"" line was a reference to Trump telling supporters at CPAC in 2023, ""I am your warrior. I am your justice. And for those who have been wronged and betrayed: I am your retribution.""
Critics have expressed fears that once the president-elect returns to office, he will use his power to get back at those who launched and cooperated in investigations and prosecutions of him during his presidency and beyond.
Trump posted in September, ""WHEN I WIN, those people that CHEATED will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the Law, which will include long-term prison sentences so that this Depravity of Justice does not happen again.""
However, in several other appearances during and after his 2024 presidential campaign, Trump has softened this rhetoric and even extended grace to his most ardent critics.
During an interviewwith Fox News Channel host Sean Hannity in June, Trump said those worried about retribution are ""wrong.""
""No. 1, they're wrong. It has to stop, because otherwise we're not going to have a country,"" he told Hannity, but he added that ""based on what they've done, I would have every right to go after them.""
President-elect Donald Trump(Rebecca Noble/Getty Images)
Dean has been an outspoken critic of Trump, eventestifying against himin 2019 during a Democrat-led congressional hearing about then-Special Counsel Robert Mueller¡¦s report on allegations of Trump-Russia collusion. The Watergate lawyer has also previously referred to Trump as an ""authoritarian president"" on social media.
Dean has long been a favorite voice of the progressive media for his criticism of the Republican Party and constant invocation of Watergate tohype up GOP scandals.
Dean was a key figure in the Watergate prosecution efforts that led to Nixon's resignation. Dean served a short prison sentence after pleading guilty to obstruction of justice for his role in the cover-up and was disbarred.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Fox News Digital's Breanne Deppisch contributed to this report.
Gabriel Hays is an associate editor for Fox News Digital."	4329	
foxnews	Israel's Netanyahu reacts after Trump warns of 'hell to pay' if Hamas doesn't free hostages	https://www.foxnews.com/world/israels-netanyahu-reacts-after-trump-warns-hell-pay-hamas-doesnt-free-hostages	"Hudson Institute senior fellow Rebeccah Heinrichs assesses the state of the Israeli-Hezbollah cease-fire, discusses Syrian rebels seizing parts of Aleppo, and how the U.S. can aid in negotiations to end the Russia-Ukraine war.
Israeli Prime Minister BenjaminNetanyahusays President-elect Donald Trump is in the ""right place"" when it comes to his warning of there being ""hell to pay"" if Hamas doesn¡¦t release their remaining hostages.
""President Trump put the emphasis in the right place, on Hamas, and not on the Israeli government, as is customary [elsewhere],"" Netanyahu said Tuesday at the beginning of a cabinet meeting,according to Reuters.
Trump on Monday called on Hamas to release all hostages prior to when he takes office on Jan. 20.
In a Truth Social post, Trump said nothing was being done to free those being held by the Iran-backed terror group since Oct. 7, 2023, after Hamas attacked Israel and killed more than 1,100 people and kidnapped at least 250 others. Of the 101 hostages that remain in Gaza, seven are Americans.
AMERICAN-ISRAELI IDF PLATOON COMMANDER KILLED IN BATTLE, BODY HELD IN GAZA, IDF SAYS
Former President Trump shakes hands with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu during their meeting at Trump's Mar-a-Lago residence in Palm Beach, Fla., on July 26, 2024.(Amos Ben-Gershom (GPO)/Handout/Anadolu via Getty Images)
""Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently, inhumanely, and against the will of the entire World, in the Middle East ¡V But it¡¦s all talk, and no action!""Trump wrote.
""Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20, 2025, the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States, there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East, and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity,"" Trump added.
7 US HOSTAGES ARE STILL HELD BY HAMAS TERRORISTS
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu makes a televised statement on Nov. 26, 2024, in Jerusalem.(Israeli Government Press Office via AP)
The message also drew support from Israeli Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich.
Hamas terrorists are still holding 101 hostages in the Gaza Strip.(Yousef Masoud/Majority World/Universal Images Group via Getty Images/File)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
""This is the way to bring back the hostages: by increasing the pressure and the costs for Hamas and its supporters, and defeating them, rather than giving in to their absurd demands,"" Reuters quoted him as saying.
Fox News¡¦ Louis Casiano contributed to this report.
Greg Norman is a reporter at Fox News Digital."	2628	
foxnews	"Biden, Trump both rip DOJ after president pardons Hunter"	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/biden-trump-both-rip-doj-after-president-pardons-hunter	"Political strategist Lucy Caldwell and senior editor for Reason Magazine Robby Soave react to President-elect Donald Trump¡¦s selection for Attorney General, Pam Bondi.
There is no other way to put it:Joe Bidenlied. Over and over.
After repeatedly promising, pledging, vowing not to pardon his son Hunter, the President of the United States did exactly that.
The move amounted to a devastating vote of no confidence in his own Justice Department, matchingDonald Trump¡¦sown denunciations of that very department.
PRESIDENT BIDEN PARDONS SON HUNTER, SPARING HIM POSSIBLE PRISON SENTENCE
Trump, who also pardoned several political allies during his first term, was quick to react on Truth Social:
""Does the pardon given by Joe to Hunter include the J-6 hostages, who have now been imprisoned for years? Such an abuse and miscarriage of Justice!""
And prominent Republicans are calling Biden a liar, with ample justification.
Both President Biden and President-elect Trump railed against the Justice Department following the former's pardon of his son, Hunter ¡V albeit for markedly different reasons.(Reuters/Getty/AP Images)
I think most people assumed that a father wouldn¡¦t let his son go to jail. And if the president had explained it in those terms, he might have garnered some public sympathy. But he did not.
You know how the president often talks about ""my word as a Biden""? I mistakenly assumed that he wouldn¡¦t promise again and again not to pardon his son or commute his sentence if he had thought there was any possibility he would get Hunter off the legal hook.
But what is anyone going to do? He leaves office next month, his political career is over and the story will quickly fade.
MEDIA ADMITS THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY IS TOO 'WOKE' AFTER KAMALA HARRIS' 2024 LOSS
Biden sounded very much like Trump as he accused the DOJ, which he had long defended, of treating his son unfairly ¡V swinging the political door wide open for the president-elect to retaliate against Justice, in part by naming longtime confidant Kash Patel to runthe FBI.
Biden said his son had been ""selectively, and unfairly, prosecuted,"" and he blamed  political pressure on the special counsel named in the case.
""No reasonable person who looks at the facts of Hunter¡¦s cases can reach any other conclusion than Hunter was singled out only because he is my son ¡X and that is wrong. There has been an effort to break Hunter ¡X who has been 5-1/2 years sober, even in the face of unrelenting attacks and selective prosecution. In trying to break Hunter, they¡¦ve tried to break me ¡X and there¡¦s no reason to believe it will stop here. Enough is enough.""
Many were mistaken in their assumption that the President wouldn't pardon his son ¡V however, with just under two months left of his term, and, presumably, his political career, Biden really has nothing to lose in doing so.(BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP via Getty Images)
But that bolsters the Trump argument that he too was singled out for selective prosecution by the DOJ ¡V and will be in a position to do something about it.
Hunter put out his own statement after the Sunday pardon: ""I have admitted and taken responsibility for my mistakes during the darkest days of my addiction ¡X mistakes that have been exploited to publicly humiliate and shame me and my family for political sport.""
The feeble attempts by some in the media and in Democratic politics to defend Biden are just sad, because they only tell half the story.
Let¡¦s say Hunter Biden was in fact singled out for prosecution, that the case would have been routinely disposed of if his last name was Jones. (Hunter had already been convicted in one case and pleaded guilty in another to tax and gun-related charges.)
But as Hunter admitted in one email, it was his last name, when his father was vice president, that enabled him to land all those buckraking contracts from around the world. It¡¦s why the Ukrainian energy giant Burisma hired him, why he was able to get moneyfrom China.
TRUMP HIT FOR HIRING LOYALISTS LIKE PAM BONDI: DOESN¡¦T EVERY PRESIDENT DO THAT?
Hunter had no expertise in any of these areas. What he had was a connection to a powerful father.
The pardon is so sweeping that it covers everything Hunter may have done from Jan. 1, 2004 through Sunday ¡V which could be a way of his father protecting himself as well.
Karine Jean-Pierre also told reporters on several occasions that Biden would not pardon Hunter.
White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre repeatedly assured reporters that President Biden wouldn't pardon Hunter.(AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
Hunter Bidenon Sunday night released a statement noting his recovery from addiction and his sobriety:
""I have admitted and taken responsibility for my mistakes during the darkest days of my addiction ¡X mistakes that have been exploited to publicly humiliate and shame me and my family for political sport.""
Mark Halperin argues that Biden put his son in jeopardy by running for president, knowing the full range of Hunter¡¦s addiction problems ¡V and lied about Hunter not getting money from China and not helping his business clients (even if he just made small talk at a couple of group meetings).
TRUMP NOMINATES KASH PATEL TO SERVE AS FBI DIRECTOR: 'ADVOCATE FOR TRUTH'
Meanwhile, Trump¡¦s choice of Kash Patel for the FBI (who would replace his own appointee, Chris Wray, who replaced the fired Jim Comey) has sparked a media backlash.
One thing no one can argue is that Patel lacks experience. He has been chief of staff atthe Pentagonand a deputy assistant to the president. In fact, he was a national security prosecutor in the Obama Justice Department, before Trump got into politics.
But on Steve Bannon¡¦s podcast last year, Patel said: ""Yes, we're going to come after the people in the media who lied about American citizens who helped Joe Biden rig presidential elections. We're going to come after you, whether it's criminally or civilly.""
The president-elect is facing a media firestorm of his own after he named Kash Patel the new FBI director over the weekend.(Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)
Patel has also said that on day one he¡¦d shut down the FBI headquarters in Washington ¡V ironically named for J. Edgar Hoover ¡V and turn it into a museum on the ""deep state."" Its 7,000 employees would be dispersed around the country.
One thing Biden never did was put any family members on the government payroll, as Trump did in naming Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, to top White House positions in the first term.
Now Trump is continuing that tradition by naming Charles Kushner, Jared¡¦s father, as ambassador to France.
SUBSCRIBE TO HOWIE'S MEDIA BUZZMETER PODCAST, A RIFF ON THE DAY'S HOTTEST STORIES
The elder Kushner had already served a couple of years in prison for a scheme that involved hiring a prostitute and sending the tape to his sister. But at least he had paid his dues when Trump later pardoned him, sparking Jared¡¦s interest in prison reform.
Trump also picked Massad Boulos ¡V the father of Tiffany Trump¡¦s husband ¡V as White House adviser on Arab andMiddle Eastaffairs. All in the family.
One thing the press does is refer to Trump nominees as ""loyalists,"" as if that¡¦s a dirty word. Sunday¡¦s Washington Post had a headline describing ""loyalist Kash Patel.""
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
But while Biden named an inner circle of aides who had been with him as long as four decades, they were not dismissed as loyalists. That¡¦s because the media agree that these were the good guys. And who can forget former AG Eric Holder describing himself asBarack Obama¡¦s""wingman.""
The Hunter pardon has set in motion a potential cycle of both presidents using the DOJ and FBI for purely partisan ends, and Joe Biden bears full responsibility for that.
Howard Kurtz is the host of FOX News Channel'sMediaBuzz(Sundays 11 a.m.-12 p.m. ET). Based in Washington, D.C., he joined the network in July 2013 and regularly appears onSpecial Report with Bret Baierand other programs."	7960	
foxnews	House Dem moves to force vote on releasing Gaetz ethics report	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/house-dem-moves-force-vote-releasing-gaetz-ethics-report	"Air Force veteran and Trump Transition team adviser Jeff Witt joined 'Fox & Friends First' to announce his candidacy for Florida's 1st congressional district and reveal what America-first issues would be most important to him if elected.
A Democratic lawmaker is moving to force a vote on releasing the results of the House Ethics Committee's report intoformer Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla.
Rep. Sean Casten, D-Ill., introduced legislation on Tuesday afternoon aimed at mandating a House-wide vote on whether to make the Gaetz report public.
He introduced it as a ""privileged resolution,"" a mechanism that forces House leaders to consider it within two legislative days ¡V putting the deadline on Thursday.
HACKER OBTAINS HOUSE ETHICS TESTIMONY ON MATT GAETZ AS TRUMP MAKES CALLS FOR AG NOMINEE
Former Rep. Matt Gaetz has been the subject of a multi-year investigation by the House Ethics Committee.(Leon Neal/Getty Images)
The House Ethics Committee's multi-year investigation into Gaetz, involving allegations of sex with a minor and illicit drug use, came to an abrupt halt last month after he resigned from Congress hours after President-elect Donald Trump tapped him to be his attorney general.
Gaetz dropped out of consideration amid quiet but steadyGOP opposition, but the committee nevertheless lost jurisdiction over the probe when Gaetz left the House of Representatives.
His resignation came just before the committee was expected to meet to consider releasing the report.
Gaetz has consistently denied any accusations of wrongdoing.
An earlier federal investigation into the allegations ended without charges against Gaetz.
GET TO KNOW DONALD TRUMP'S CABINET: WHO HAS THE PRESIDENT-ELECT PICKED SO FAR?
Rep. Sean Casten is aiming to force a vote on the committee's report(Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images)
It's highly unusual for the House Ethics Committee, a panel normally shrouded in secrecy, to release reports on lawmakers who have left office. It's a detail House Speaker Mike Johnson, R-La., raised when telling reporters last month that he was against releasing the report.
But it's not unheard of, as Casten pointed out on Tuesday.
""The Committee on Ethics has, on many occasions, released its reports on former members,"" Casten said in a statement. ""Resigning from Congress should not allow Members to avoid accountability for allegations as serious as those faced by Matt Gaetz. Withholding this report from the American people would impede the dignity and integrity of the legislative proceedings of the House.""
Casten introduced a similar resolution last month, but his office said it was allowed to expire by House GOP leaders over the Thanksgiving break.
The new resolution will likely not be sidelined so easily, with the House expected in session from now until Friday.
Rep. Susan Wild, the top Democrat on the Ethics Committee, hinted that the vote on releasing it fell along party lines last month.(Alex Wong/Getty Images)
The last day to consider the resolution will be Thursday, the same day the Ethics Committee will meet after previously failing tocome to an agreementon releasing the Gaetz report.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Rep. Susan Wild, D-Pa., the top Democrat on the panel, hinted that the vote to do so fell along party lines.
""I'd say that a vote was taken. As many of you know, this committee is evenly divided between Democrats and Republicans, five Dems, five Republicans, which means that in order to affirmatively move something forward, somebody has to cross party lines and vote with the other side ¡V which happens a lot, by the way, and we often vote unanimously,"" Wild told reporters after the last meeting. ""That did not happen in today's vote.""
Elizabeth Elkind is a politics reporter for Fox News Digital leading coverage of the House of Representatives. Previous digital bylines seen at Daily Mail and CBS News.
Follow on Twitter at @liz_elkind and send tips to elizabeth.elkind@fox.com"	3959	
foxnews	"Dem Rep. Dean Phillips blasts Biden after Hunter pardon, says some people ¡¥are indeed above the law¡¦"	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/dem-rep-dean-phillips-blasts-biden-after-hunter-pardon-some-people-are-indeed-above-law	"OutKick founder Clay Travis joins 'The Faulkner Focus,' criticizes President Biden as 'a complete and total liar' after issuing a pardon for his son Hunter and calls on President-elect Trump to pardon all January 6 rioters.
A Democratic U.S. congressman on Monday said it appears that certain people are ""above the law"" afterPresident Bidenpardoned his son, Hunter Biden, despite repeatedly saying he would not give his son a pass.
Rep. Dean Phillips, D-Minn., responded to Biden¡¦s decision to pardon Hunter on social media, blasting the president¡¦s own words from earlier this year that ""no one is above the law.""
""Let¡¦s just say the quiet part out loud, certain Americans are indeed above the law and influence is always for sale,"" Phillips wrote on X. ""It¡¦s time for the exhausted majority to condemn and confront legalized corruption.""
President Biden issued a sweeping pardonfor Hunter Biden on Sunday after he had repeatedly said he would not do so. The first son had been convicted in two separate federal cases earlier this year. He pleaded guilty to federal tax charges in September, and was convicted of three felony gun charges in June after lying on a mandatory gun purchase form by saying he was not illegally using or addicted to drugs.
HUNTER BIDEN GUN CASE TERMINATED AFTER PARDON, BUT FEDERAL JUDGE STOPS SHORT OF FULL DISMISSAL
Phillips called out the ""legalized corruption"" in politics and argued that pardoning powers have been ""abused"" by presidents of both major political parties.(Reuters/Tom Brenner, File)
The presidentargued in a statementthat Hunter was ""singled out only because he is my son"" and that there was an effort to ""break Hunter"" in order to ""break me.""
Biden had stated on record multiple times that hewould not pardon Huntershould a jury convict his son.
President Joe Biden pardoned his son Hunter Biden on Sunday.(AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana)
Phillips, who unsuccessfully ran for the Democratic nomination for president, argued that perhaps both Hunter Biden and Trump may not have been charged in their respective criminal cases under different circumstances.
""Two things can be true at once: Neither Hunter Biden nor Donald Trump would have been charged with certain crimes had they not been political figures,"" he wrote. ""Pardoning powers have been abused by Trump and now Biden, and must be reformed.""
TAPPER SAYS BIDEN LYING ABOUT PARDONING HUNTER MAKES HIS ADMIN AND ALLIES ¡¥EITHER CREDULOUS OR COMPLICIT¡¦
The pardon has beenmet with widespread criticismfrom Republicans, some Democrats and the media.
Reporters grilled White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre on Monday, asking whether Biden and his surrogates lied to the American people.Jean-Pierre responded,""One thing the president believes is to always be truthful with the American people,"" and repeatedly pointed to Biden¡¦s own statement on the matter.
CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Biden has yet to take questions from reporters on why he broke his pledge to Americans and decided to pardon the first son.
Fox News Digital's Alexander Hall contributed to this report."	3078	
foxnews	Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy agree on 'need to scrutinize' US funding for NGOs	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/elon-musk-vivek-ramaswamy-agree-need-scrutinize-us-funding-ngos	"The 'Outnumbered' panel weighs in on the Department of Government Efficiency's effort to slash wasteful government spending under the leadership of Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy.
Elon Musk andVivek Ramaswamy¡X the duo President-elect Donald Trump tapped for the effort known as the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) ¡X have indicated that they plan to examine funding for non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
""We need to scrutinize U.S. government funding of 'non-government organizations,'"" Ramaswamy noted in a post on X. ""It's an oxymoron that represents a waste of taxpayer dollars, but the real problem runs deeper: Americans deserve transparency on opaque foreign aid & nonprofit groups abetting our own border crisis.""
Musk agreed, commenting, ""Absolutely.""
ELON MUSK SAYS THERE'S SUBSTANTIAL IGNORANCE ABOUT AMERICA'S NATIONAL DEBT
Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy will head the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE).(Getty Images)
He also agreed with his brother Kimbal Musk, who suggested that NGOs are ""mouthpieces"" for governments that ""need to go.""
""NGO¡¦s are the govt¡¦s way of creating mouthpieces that promote their agenda and push for censorship without the normal checks and balances that govt has to follow. They need to go,"" Kimbal Musk declared in a tweet.
""Yes,""Elon Muskreplied.
ELON MUSK WANTS TO MEET ALEX SOROS ¡X AND SOROS SAYS HE'S OPEN TO IT
President-elect Donald Trump and Elon Musk watch the launch of the sixth test flight of the SpaceX Starship rocket on Nov. 19, 2024, in Brownsville, Texas.(Brandon Bell/Getty Images)
Musk and Ramaswamy noted in aWall Street Journal piecelast month that they ""will serve as outside volunteers, not federal officials or employees.""
Trump had said in a statement that DOGE ""will provide advice and guidance from outside of Government, and will partner with the White House and Office of Management & Budget to drive large scale structural reform, and create an entrepreneurial approach to Government never seen before.""
ELON MUSK CALLS OUT $2.3 BILLION ALLOCATED TO NGO PERSONNEL FACILITATING ¡¥ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION¡¦ IN BORDER BILL
Vivek Ramaswamy encourages voters to support then-candidate Trump during a campaign rally in Laconia, N.H., on Jan. 22, 2024.(Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Musk declared in a recent post that, ""Less government means more power to the people.""
Alex Nitzberg is a writer for Fox News Digital."	2433	
foxnews	Mar-a-Lago trumps White House as president-elect overshadows Biden on world stage	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/mar-a-lago-trumps-white-house-president-elect-overshadows-biden-world-stage	"Fox News' Brooke Singman reports the latest on the president-elect.
President Bidenenjoyed a warm welcome from a crowd of thousands as he arrived in Angola this week, as the president made good on his long awaited first visit to sub-Saharan Africa.
Biden, likely on his last overseas trip beforePresident-elect Donald Trumptakes over in the White House next month, is already being overshadowed on the world stage by his predecessor and successor.
""The Oval Office has been replaced by Mar-a-Lago,"" Matthew Bartlett, a Republican strategist who served at the State Department during Trump's first term, told Fox News.
Additionally, Matt Mowers, a veteran GOP national public affairs strategist and former diplomat at the State Department during Trump's first administration, made the case that ""Joe Biden¡¦s essentially been a lame duck"" for months and that ""world leaders have been shifting their gaze to the next administration.""
WHAT TRUMP TOLD CANADA'S LEADER BEHIND CLOSED DOORS
President Biden walks from Air Force One as he arrives at Quatro de Fevereiro International Airport in Luanda, Angola on Monday, Dec. 2, 2024 on his long-promised visit to Africa.(AP Photo/Ben Curtis)
Wayne Lesperance, a veteran political scientist and president of New England College, highlighted that ""while President-elect is still weeks away from taking the oath of office, loyalties and the attention of world leaders has shifted to the incoming President and from Washington to Mar-a-lago with breathtaking speed.""
While members of the Biden White House would likely disagree with such sentiments - especially after the current administration played a large role in hammering out the cease-fire that halted fighting in Lebanon between Israel and Hezbollah - it is undeniable that world leaders have already started to engage directly with the incoming president and administration.
TRUMP GETS READY TO MAKE A SPLASH ON THE WORLD STAGE
Trump will meet withFrench President Emmanuel Macronafter the French president invited him to attend Saturday's star-studded VIP event for the official reopening of the newly restored Notre Dame Cathedral, five years after a devastating fire wrecked the Paris landmark.
The president-elect's appearance will serve as Trump's unofficial return to the global stage, and it is another reminder that he is quickly becoming the center of the world's attention.
French President Emmanuel Macron, left, shakes hands with then-President Trump at an arrival ceremony during a state visit in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, April 24, 2018. Trump will attend the re-opening celebration of the Notre Dame Cathedral this weekend, five years after a fire heavily damaged the structure.(Getty Images)
The trip to Paris comes a week afterCanadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeauhastily made an unannounced stop in Mar-a-Lago to dine with Trump after the president-elect threatened a trade war with Canada and Mexico.
Trump argued that Canada had failed to prevent large amounts of drugs and undocumented people from crossing the northern border into the U.S. and also pointed to America's massive trade deficit with Canada.
According to reporting fromFox News' Bret Baier,Trump suggested to Trudeau that Canada could become the 51st state.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, left, met with President-elect Donald Trump at Mar-a-Lago in Florida on Friday, Nov. 29, 2024 to discuss topics like the economy, illegal immigration and a proposed 25% tariff.(Justin Trudeau X)
Trump also weighed in this week in the volatile Middle East, warning in a social media post that there would be ""ALL HELL TO PAY"" if Hamas does not release all the hostages held in Gaza before he is inaugurated on Jan. 20.
Hours later, Trump pledged to block the purchase of U.S. Steel - a top American manufacturer - by the Japanese company Nippon Steel.
""I am totally against the once great and powerful U.S. Steel being bought by a foreign company, in this case Nippon Steel of Japan,"" Trump said on social media. ""As President, I will block this deal from happening.""
Trump, who reiterated comments he made earlier this year on the presidential campaign trail, is on the same page as Biden, who has vowed that U.S. Steel will remain American-owned.
Biden's trip to Africa is putting a spotlight on his administration's commitment to the continent, which has increasingly been courted by massive investments from China. Biden is also highlighting America's wide-ranging effort to combat HIV/AIDS in Africa, a continent Trump never visited during his first term in the White House.
President Biden, left, stands for national anthems with Angolan President Joao Lourenco at the presidential palace in Luanda, Angola on Tuesday, Dec. 3, 2024.(AP Photo/Ben Curtis)
However, the president's trip will be overshadowed by Trump's upcoming stop in France, as the president-elect is increasingly courted by world leaders.
While the spotlight traditionally shifts from the outgoing to the incoming president, Mowers argued that ""it is more pronounced this time because the difference in the Biden and Trump approach to foreign policy is so different.""
Mowers emphasized that Trump is already aiming ""to shape world events"" by ""being bold, not timid, in the statements he¡¦s putting out, and the world is already reacting to that kind of American strength.""
Bartlett noted that ""the world is demanding leadership."" Mowers added that ""world leaders that want to get something doneÿ have to engage with Trump.""
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Lesperance, pointing to Biden's swing through Africa, noted that lame duck presidents' final weeks are ""usually filled with celebratory moments and efforts to cement one¡¦s legacy. Often the focus is on their role on the world stage on behalf of America and its allies.'
However, he argued that ""Biden¡¦s pronouncements on Ukraine, Gaza and the importance of climate change go largely ignored by world leaders. Instead, they focus on Trump¡¦s picks for his foreign policy team and pronouncements about changes in U.S. foreign policy position. It¡¦s pretty evident that while Biden attempts a victory tour, the world has turned the page."""	6148	
foxnews	Recently ousted Dem senator said he's 'getting the f--- out of here' when asked about presidential pardon	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/recently-ousted-dem-senator-asked-presidential-pardon	"Democratic Rep. Seth Moulton said Tuesday that while he understands President Biden's instinct to pardon Hunter as a father, there was more at ""stake"" with the Department of Justice.
Sen. Jon Tester is getting testy with reporters during his remaining weeks in Congress after being booted from his long-held Montana Senate seat.
President Biden pardoned his son,Hunter Biden, on Sunday, absolving him of any charges for crimes he ""committed or may have committed"" between January 2014 and December 2024.
On Monday, Tester was asked about Biden's controversial move to pardon his son, to which the senator offered a rather blunt response.
""I¡¦m one month from getting the f--- out of here,"" he said with a smile,according to CNNand other outlets. ""Ask somebody who counts.""
NAVY SEAL TIM SHEEHY OUSTS 3-TERM SEN. JON TESTER IN MONTANA SENATE RACE
Sen. Jon Tester arrives for the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense hearing in the Dirksen Building on June 18, 2024.(Tom Williams)
The comment comes nearly one month after the three-term Montana Democrat was ousted by Republican Navy SEAL Sen.-elect Tim Sheehy in one of the most closely watched races of the 2024 cycle.
MONTANA'S ROAD TO RED: HOW THE STATE SHIFTED TO ALL GOP LEADERSHIP FOR THE FIRST TIME IN OVER 100 YEARS
While Tester did not answer the question, Democrats on Capitol Hill have beenspeaking outagainst Biden's decision to relieve his son from facing any potential federal charges over the course of the past decade.
Republican Sen.-elect Tim Sheehy bested Tester in the November election.(Tim Sheehy For Montana)
""President Biden¡¦s decision to pardon his son was wrong. A president's family and allies shouldn't get special treatment. This was an improper use of power, it erodes trust in our government, and it emboldens others to bend justice to suit their interests,"" Sen. Gary Peters, D-Mich, wrote in a post on X.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Sen. Michael Bennet, D-Colo., also said that Biden's decision ""further erodes Americans¡¦ faith that the justice system is fair and equal for all.""
Efforts to reach Tester's office for comment at press time were unsuccessful.
Aubrie Spady is a Writer for Fox News Digital."	2201	
foxnews	Dem lawmaker joins Republican-led DOGE Caucus with push to remove Secret Service from DHS	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/dem-lawmaker-joins-republican-led-doge-caucus-push-remove-secret-service-from-dhs	"Geltrude & Company founder Dan Geltrude and Strategic Wealth Partners investment strategist Luke Lloyd discuss DOGE's push to tackle government spending, how President-elect Trump can impact the economy and the market's performance.
Rep. Jared Moskowitz, D-Fla., announced on Tuesday that he would be joining the House of Representatives'DOGE Caucus, becoming the first Democrat in the now-bipartisan group.
He advocated for removing the U.S. Secret Service (USSS) from the purview of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), something floated by several Republican lawmakersmonths ago.
""Today I will join the Congressional DOGE Caucus, because I believe that streamlining government processes and reducing ineffective government spending should not be a partisan issue,"" Moskowitz said in a statement.
ELON MUSK SAYS THERE'S SUBSTANTIAL IGNORANCE ABOUT AMERICA'S NATIONAL DEBT
Rep. Jared Moskowitz announced he wants to work with Republicans to cut the federal bureaucracy, and suggested decoupling the Secret Service from DHS.(Getty Images)
The DOGE Caucus, standing for Delivering Outstanding Government Efficiency, was launched by Reps. Pete Sessions, R-Texas, and Aaron Bean, R-Fla., soon after President-elect Donald Trump announced a DOGE advisory panel to be led by Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy.
""I¡¦ve been clear that there are ways we can reorganize our government to make it work better for the American people. Specifically, the Department of Homeland Security, while very necessary, has gotten too big,"" Moskowitz said.
He suggested USSS, along with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), should become ""independent federal agencies with a direct report to the White House.""
""It¡¦s not practical to have 22 agencies under this one department. I look forward to working in a bipartisan manner with my colleagues to remove FEMA and Secret Service from DHS,"" Moskowitz said.
MIKE JOHNSON WINS REPUBLICAN SUPPORT TO BE HOUSE SPEAKER AGAIN AFTER TRUMP ENDORSEMENT
Rep. Aaron Bean co-founded the DOGE Caucus.(Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images)
It is a particularly notable position for the Florida Democrat to take, considering his deep familiarity with both agencies.
Before coming to Congress, Moskowitz served as Florida's director of Emergency Management under Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis. He has also previously pushed todecouple FEMA from DHSalongside Rep. Garret Graves, R-La.
As a lawmaker, he is also a member of the bipartisan House task force investigating the assassination attempts against Trump.
US NATIONAL DEBT HITS A NEW RECORD: $36 TRILLION
Vivek Ramaswamy and Elon Musk were tapped by President-elect Trump to lead an advisory panel on government efficiency.(Getty Images/AP Images)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The DOGE Caucus is one of several overtures by House Republicans to get in step with Musk and Ramaswamy's new mission.
House Oversight Committee Chairman James Comer, R-Ky., recently announced the next Congress would see a special subcommittee on government efficiency led by Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, R-Ga.
Elizabeth Elkind is a politics reporter for Fox News Digital leading coverage of the House of Representatives. Previous digital bylines seen at Daily Mail and CBS News.
Follow on Twitter at @liz_elkind and send tips to elizabeth.elkind@fox.com"	3323	
foxnews	"Trump bucks Biden's 'don't' doctrine on world stage, hits adversaries with 'all hell to pay' deadline"	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-bucks-bidens-dont-doctrine-world-stage-hits-adversaries-all-hell-pay-deadline	"¡¥Gutfeld!¡¦ panelists weigh in on President Biden's visit to Israel and the 'stark' differences in U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East under Biden and former President Trump.
In the waning days of the Biden administration,President-elect Trumpis bucking his predecessor's ""don't"" doctrine as a deterrent to foreign adversaries, instead issuing tough warnings before even taking office.
""If the hostages are not released prior to January 20, 2025, the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States, there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East, and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity,"" Trump warned Hamas on his Truth Social account Monday.
""Everybody is talking aboutthe hostageswho are being heldso violently, inhumanely, and against the will of the entire World, in the Middle East ¡V But it¡¦s all talk, and no action!"" Trump added.
War broke out in the Middle East on Oct. 7, 2023, when Hamas launched a surprise attack on Israel. Terrorists killed more than 1,100 people and kidnapped more than 200, with Hamas still holding 101 hostages, including seven Americans, in Gaza morethan a year after the war began.
BIDEN SAYING 'DON'T' AND OTHER THREATS SEEMINGLY FAIL TO DETER IRAN AS MORE US MIDEAST BASES HIT
President-elect Trump and President Biden(Getty Images)
The White House and Israeli government have worked for months to secure a hostage release deal, but have been unsuccessful.
Trump's tough language against Hamas, which included warning those responsible for holding the hostages that they ""will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America,"" stands in stark contrast to President Biden's ""don't"" doctrine regarding the war in Israel.
After the war began last year,Biden delivered remarks from Israelwhere he warned adversaries of Israel and the U.S. ""don't"" attack Israel.
REPUBLICANS SLAM BIDEN¡¦S ¡¥DON¡¦T¡¦ DETERRENCE: ¡¥EVERY TIME HE SAYS DON¡¦T, THEY DO¡¦
""And my message to any state or any other hostile actor thinking about attacking Israel remains the same as it was a week ago: Don¡¦t. Don¡¦t. Don¡¦t,"" he said.
War continued despite the warning, including from Iranian proxies against Israel.
Israeli military vehicles are seen traveling in the city of Kiryat Shmona, near the country's border with Lebanon, on Wednesday, Nov. 27.(AP/Ohad Zwigenberg)
This year, Biden doubled down on his warning of ""don't"" aimed at Iran. When asked by reporters about Iran's expectation to attack Israel in April, he said his message to Tehran is: ""Don't.""
""We are devoted to the defense of Israel. We will support Israel. We will help defend Israel and Iran will not succeed,"" he added.
Again in August, Biden warned Iran against attacking Israel with the one-word threat.
TRUMP PROMISES 'HELL TO PAY' IN MIDDLE EAST IF HOSTAGES ARE NOT RELEASED BEFORE HE TAKES OFFICE
Biden's common response todeter foreign adversariesfrom attacking Israel is viewed as a failed policy, with conservative security experts and others slamming the message as weak.
""The Administration keeps saying 'don't' to Iran ¡V but then does nothing to impose costs. This weakness means the risk from Iran continues to grow,"" former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo tweeted in August.
President Biden speaks to reporters outside of St. Edmond's Roman Catholic Church in Rehoboth Beach, Del., Saturday, Aug. 31, 2024.(AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)
""Well, he said, ¡¥Don¡¦t¡¦ multiple times, and ¡¥Don¡¦t¡¦ isn¡¦t a national security policy,"" Pompeo added later in a comment to Fox News. ""It¡¦s not even a deterrent.
""So much for President Biden telling bad guys ¡¥Don¡¦t¡¦ actually being an effective deterrent. Every time he says 'Don¡¦t,' they do,"" Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., wrote in a post in April, after Iran launched more than 300 missiles and drones at Israel.
¡¥WAR FOLLOWED US¡¦: A SYRIAN FAMILY FLED BEIRUT AFTER ISRAELI BOMBARDMENT TO FACE REPRESSION, BOMBING AT HOME
""Biden's approach with Iran and the Middle East is backwards,"" Rep. Nancy Mace, R-S.C., wrote on X. ""Now as we risk entering WWIII, the US must stand by Israel's commitment to democracy. The president must stand firm, andstop coddling Iran immediately.""
""I guess Biden's speechwriters have him down to one word now. At least he can remember it. Worse when referring to the hospital carnage he calls Hamas the other team,"" Fox News' Greg Gutfeld quipped after the war in Israel broke out last year, mocking Biden's use of the word ""don't.""
Former President Trump gestures while walking onstage for a campaign rally on Oct. 12, 2024, in Coachella, Calif. (Mario Tama/Getty Images)
Trump had campaigned on ending the wars in both Ukraine and Israel, both of which began under the Biden administration, and claimed that neither war would have been launched if he had been president.
""The Ukraine situation is so horrible, the Israeli situation is so horrible. We are going to get them solved very fast,"" Trump said on the campaign trail in January.
Israeli officials celebrated Trump's tough stance against terrorists in the Middle East and his demand for hostages to be released by next month.
""Thank you and bless you Mr. President-elect,""President Isaac Herzog of Israelsaid in a post on social media. ""We all pray for the moment we see our sisters and brothers back home!""
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The nation's finance minister, Bezalel Smotrich, added, ""How refreshing it is to hear clear and morally sound statements that do not create a false equivalence or call for addressing ¡¥both sides.¡¦ This is the way to bring back the hostages: by increasing the pressure and the costs for Hamas and its supporters, and defeating them, rather than giving in to their absurd demands.""
Trump will beinaugurated as the nation's 47th presidenton Jan. 20, with his team celebrating that he's already following through on his campaign promises.
""President Trump is working towards international peace. In anticipation of the incoming Trump administration, Iran has called off its reprisal attack on Israel and negotiations to end the war in Gaza and Russia's war in Ukraine have accelerated. One former NATO Supreme Allied Commander says America's enemies are 'concerned, they're nervous ¡V [and] they ought to be,'"" the Trump War Room said in an email this week titled ""Promises Kept ¡V And President Trump Hasn't Even Been Inaugurated Yet."""	6398	
foxnews	Hunter Biden pardon raises new questions over 5th Amendment ¡¥loophole¡¦	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/hunter-biden-pardon-raises-new-questions-over-5th-amendment-loophole	"Democratic Rep. Seth Moulton said Tuesday that while he understands President Biden's instinct to pardon Hunter as a father, there was more at ""stake"" with the Department of Justice.
President Joe Biden¡¦s sweeping pardon of his son, Hunter Biden, touched off a flurry of fresh legal speculation Tuesday over how, or if, the younger Biden can move to assert his Fifth Amendment privileges that protect against self-incrimination ¡X and how the broad immunity granted to Hunter could be twisted against him.
While Hunter Biden isindeed shielded against prosecutionfor any federal offenses he ""committed or may have committed"" between Jan. 1, 2014, through Dec. 1, 2024, those around him are not ¡X which means that Hunter Biden could theoretically be called on to testify in any potential cases brought against family members or others in his inner circle.
BIDEN'S SWEEPING HUNTER PARDON AT ODDS WITH LONGTIME RHETORIC ON EXECUTIVE POWER: 'NO ONE IS ABOVE THE LAW'
Hunter Biden, son of U.S. President Joe Biden, departs a House Oversight Committee meeting on Capitol Hill.(Kent Nishimura/Getty Images)
In these cases, Hunter Biden¡¦s pardon could actually limit his ability to assertFifth Amendment privileges, since he is no longer at risk of facing criminal charges.
However, the pardon applies only to federal crimes, not state crimes, and it remains unclear how, or if, Republicans could move to act on this possible loophole in the weeks and months ahead.
Still, the question of Fifth Amendment protections does have outsize importance as Republicans prepare to regain the majority in both chambers of Congress in January, ramping up the possibility of potential GOP-led investigations into the outgoing president.
In an interviewMonday night on Newsmax, House Oversight Committee Chairman James Comer said he plans to discuss the issue of Hunter Biden's Fifth Amendment privileges with Trump¡¦s nominee for attorney general, Pam Bondi.
""I look forward to talking to attorney general Bondi about this,"" the Kentucky Republican said.
DNC UNION LAUNCHES GOFUNDME TO HELP FORMER STAFFERS HIT BY MASSIVE LAYOFFS AFTER ELECTION LOSSES
Then Vice President-elect, Joe Biden, stands with his son, Hunter Biden, during a re-enactment of the Senate oath ceremony in the Old Senate Chamber on Capitol Hill.(AP Photo/Charles Dharapak, File)
""We still have information that we've requested that we never received,"" Comer said, adding that in his view, the White House ""is still to this day obstructing rightful evidence that we should have obtained.""
Any investigations into Biden¡¦s family after he leaves office would likely be criticized by Democrats as both futile and a waste of taxpayer money, given the nature of earlier investigations, Hunter¡¦s own pardon and Biden¡¦s own lame-duck status.
Comer¡¦s office did not respond to a question from Fox News Digital on whether the House Oversight Committee is planning to investigate Biden¡¦s action in the next congressional session, or their views on Hunter¡¦s ability to plead the Fifth.
But the questions about this potential loophole come just days after President Joe Biden announced the sweeping clemency grant for his only surviving son.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Earlier Tuesday, the federal judge overseeing Hunter Biden¡¦s gun case in Delaware announced the termination of further court proceedings, including a planned sentencing date in December. Earlier this year, a Delaware jury found Hunter guilty on all three federal felony firearm charges brought against him.
In terminating the proceedings, U.S. District Judge Maryellen Noreika stopped short of dismissing the case outright, as requested by Hunter Biden's legal team.
In September, Hunter Biden pleaded guilty to separate federal charges of tax evasion in California, which the pardon also covers.
The judge in that case, Judge Mark Scarsi, has not yet announced whether he will terminate the proceedings against Hunter or dismiss the case in full.
Breanne Deppisch is a politics reporter for Fox News Digital covering the 2024 election and other national news."	4073	
foxnews	ANDREW McCARTHY: The real reason Hunter Biden's pardon goes all the way back to 2014	https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/andrew-mccarthy-real-reason-hunter-bidens-pardon-goes-all-way-back-2014	"Fox News' Trey Gowdy and Andrew McCarthy unpack the debates surrounding President Biden's pardon of son Hunter and Trump picking Kash Patel to head the FBI on 'Special Report.'
An intriguing aspect ofPresident Biden¡¦s pardon of his son Hunter¡V which was utterly predictable, andpredicted, notwithstanding the president¡¦s repeated, indignant insistence that it would never happen ¡V is the sweep of the clemency order.
Biden didn¡¦t limit his son¡¦s insurance against future prosecution to the two cases ¡V criminal gun and tax prosecutions ¡V on which he¡¦s been found guilty (by a jury in the former and a judge who took his guilty plea in the latter). The pardon covers all potential federal crimes in which he may have culpability from Jan. 1, 2014, through Sunday night (Dec. 1, 2024).
Why 2014?
Well, the most damning evidence of the Biden family influence-peddling business occurred in the last years of Joe Biden¡¦s term as vice president ¡V specifically, 2014 through 2016. That, of course, is when the Burisma hijinks began. Indeed, Hunter¡¦s board seat on the corrupt energy company¡¦s board was so manifestly tied to his father¡¦s political influence that, as soon as Biden left office in 2017, Burisma slashed Hunter¡¦s compensation in half.
JONATHAN TURLEY: JOE BIDEN'S PARDON OF SON HUNTER CEMENTS HIS LEGACY AS LIAR IN CHIEF
Not only that. The two lucrative schemes tied to the Chinese Communist Party ¡V the Bohai Harvest RST investment enterprise and CEFC through which the Bidens netted several million dollars ¡V also began in that 2014-16 time frame. So did the scheme in which Hunter collected a cool million from Romanian businessman Gabriel Popoviciu.
The Joe Biden vice-presidency phase also included the big Caf_ Milano dinner in Washington, at which the then-VP rubbed elbows with a number of Hunter¡¦s foreign business partners (the ones Joe Biden, when not making no-pardon vows, told us again and again he had nothing to do with because he never discussed business with Hunter). The guest list for that dinner includedEleana Baturina, the billionaire widow of Putin crony Yuri Luzhkov (the former mayor of Moscow) who also had a multi-million dollar transaction with Hunter.
As I¡¦ve detailed, the Romanian scheme mirrors the Burisma scheme: As the VP anchoring Obama administration foreign policy, Joe Biden publicly harangued governments in Bucharest and Kyiv to intensify their anti-corruption efforts; that paved the way for his enterprising son to earn millions from those governments¡¦ corruption targets (such as Popoviciu and Burisma¡¦s Mykola ""Nicolay"" Zlochevsky) by using the specter of the then-VP¡¦s political influence in seeking favorable treatment from those governments. And who can forget then-Vice President Biden¡¦s threat to the fledgling Ukrainian regime that a billion dollars in desperately needed U.S. funding would be withheld unless Kyiv fired the prosecutor who just happened to be investigating Zlochevsky and Burisma.
Naturally, among the questions raised by all this is why Hunter and those in cahoots with him were not prosecuted for failing to register as foreign agents ¡V the FARA law about which theBiden Justice Department touts its enforcement efforts.
CLICK HERE FOR MORE FOX NEWS OPINION
Moreover, if we had a one-tiered justice system in which everyone was treated equally, we couldn¡¦t help but notice that the facts of the Biden foreign business arrangements are remarkable similar to those arising from the Ukrainian business activities of Paul Manafort, President Trump¡¦s one-time 2016 campaign chairman.
Special counsel Robert Muellerand his staff, which included several activist Democrats, threw the book at Manafort ¡V not only tax and FARA charges but bank fraud, money laundering, etc. By the time he was convicted, Manafort was 69; and the charges against him had nothing to do with the focus of Mueller¡¦s probe, the bogus claim of Trump ""collusion"" with Russia; the prosecutors were squeezing him in hopes that they¡¦d give him something ¡Vanything¡V on the then-president.
President Biden and Hunter Biden head toward Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House, July 26, 2024.(AP Photo/Susan Walsh, File)
Because of that and many other examples of our two-tiered system, there have been some aggressive statements from the Trump camp that his election means the tables have turned. I suspect that this is hot rhetoric that will blow over, at least with respect tothe Biden family. The period from 2014 to 2016 was a long time ago. Even if theTrump Justice Departmentwere interested in pursuing new charges ¡V again, I doubt that ¡V the relevant statutes of limitations (five years for most federal crimes, six for some relevant tax crimes) have already expired.
Still, President Biden is taking no chances. After all, an aggressive, creative prosecutor (perhaps in the mold of Jack Smith, but this time a zealous Republican) could cobble together a theory that Hunter and his cohorts ¡V perhaps including the president and his brother Jim ¡V were in a conspiracy that continued after 2016, perhaps even into 2020 and beyond. The proof for that might not be strong, it might even be non-existent. But in light of the evidence ¡V including the evidence developed by the House Oversight Committee, which found thatthe Bidens reeled in over $27 millionfrom foreign persons and entities from 2014 to 2019 ¡V there would certainly be a sufficient basis for a criminal investigation.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
And as people in the Trump orbit who¡¦ve been hounded by Democratic prosecutors and committees can tell you, investigations are ruinous. They cost a fortune in legal fees, they dry up business opportunities, and they impose tremendous anxiety on suspects and their families.
The breathtaking expanse of Hunter¡¦s pardon ¡V nearly 11 years for someone the president repeatedly told us had done nothing wrong ¡V is clearly an effort to foreclose any further investigation ofthe president¡¦s sonover the 2014-16 period from which the Biden Justice Department quite intentionally averted its eyes.
CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM ANDREW McCARTHY
Andrew C. McCarthy serves as a FOX News contributor and is a senior fellow at the National Review Institute and a contributing editor of National Review. Follow him on Twitter@andrewcmccarthy"	6293	
foxnews	"Rod Blagojevich rips Biden, Democrats for lying about pardoning Hunter: Made 'chumps of the American people'"	https://www.foxnews.com/media/rod-blagojevich-rips-biden-democrats-lying-about-pardoning-hunter-made-chumps-american-people	"Former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich joins 'America's Newsroom' to discuss Chicago residents' frustration at local Democratic officials for prioritizing spending on migrants and President Biden's pardon for his son Hunter.
Former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich, a Democrat whose 14-year corruption sentence was commuted by former President Trump, called out President Biden for lying to the American people about his intentions of pardoning his son, Hunter.
Blagojevich, who was released in 2020 after serving eight years behind bars in Colorado, wasconvicted in his second trialin 2011 on 18 counts, including trying to sell former President Obama¡¦s old Senate seat. His first trial ended with the jury unable to reach a verdict, except for a single conviction, for lying to the FBI.
TRUMP ASKS ABOUT ¡¥J-6¡¦ HOSTAGES IN RESPONSE TO BIDEN'S PARDON OF HUNTER: ¡¥SUCH AN ABUSE¡¦
""My case is different from Hunter Biden,"" Blagojevich told Bill Hemmerduring ""America's Newsroom""on Tuesday. ""He really committed crimes. I didn't. I was in prison for politics. I wouldn't give in to weaponized prosecutors.""
""Joe Biden's a father. I'm a father. I have to think that under the same circumstances, I probably would have done the same thing for my child,"" he continued. ""Having said that, I wouldn't have lied to the American people. Joe Biden knew all along that he was going to do this for his son. How could he not?""
President Biden walks with Hunter Biden toward Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House, July 26, 2024.(AP Photo/Susan Walsh, File)
President Bidenissued a sweeping pardonfor Hunter on Sunday after he had repeatedly said he would not do so.
The first son had been convicted in two separate federal cases earlier this year. He pleaded guilty to federal tax charges in September, and was convicted of three felony gun charges in June after lying on a mandatory gun purchase form by saying he was not illegally using or addicted to drugs.
The presidentargued in a statementthat Hunter was ""singled out only because he is my son"" and that there was an effort ""trying to break Hunter"" in order to ""break me.""
Critics have been quick to call out the White House for reversing course on previous vows against pardoning the first son.
HUNTER BIDEN SAYS HIS MISTAKES WERE ¡¥EXPLOITED¡¦ FOR POLITICAL SPORT, SAYS HE WON'T TAKE PARDON FOR GRANTED
""Right from the beginning, he lied to the American people, making chumps of the American people,"" Blagojevich said. ""And here [is] just another lie coming from Democratic political leaders who have cynical purposes for political reasons instead of being straight with the American people. So I think it was wrong the way he handled it. It's hard for me to condemn a guy who is looking after his son.""
Despite critics' claims the White House lied about Biden's intentions, White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre argued the American people werenever fed lieswhile speaking with reporters on the way to Angola.
""One thing the president believes is to always be truthful with the American people,"" Jeane-Pierre said Monday, repeatedly saying that Biden ""wrestled with [the decision].""
She was peppered with questions about the pardon and why Biden decided to go forward with it last weekend, mostly repeating many points in the president's statement from Sunday night, such as Hunter was ""singled out politically."" She also teased that there could be more pardons on the horizon before Biden leaves office.
""There's a process in place, obviously,"" she told reporters. ""And so, I'm not going to get ahead of the president on this, but you could expect more announcements, more pardons, clemency at the end of this term.""
Fox News' Alexander Hall, Stephen Sorace and Brie Stimson contributed to this report.
CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Bailee Hill is an associate editor with Fox News Digital. Story ideas can be sent to bailee.hill@fox.com"	3892	
foxnews	Israel warns it will go after Lebanon directly if cease-fire with Hezbollah collapses	https://www.foxnews.com/world/israel-warns-go-after-lebanon-directly-cease-fire-hezbollah-collapses	"Hudson Institute senior institute Rebeccah Heinrichs assesses the state of the Israeli-Hezbollah cease-fire, discusses Syrian rebels seizing parts of Aleppo and how the U.S. can aid in negotiations to end the Russia-Ukraine war.
Israelissued a direct warningto Lebanon on Tuesday and said it will no longer distinguish between Hezbollah and the country should the tenuous cease-fire with the terrorist group collapse.
""There will no longer be an exemption for the state of Lebanon,"" Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said,according to the Times of Israel, adding that Jerusalem will ""show maximum response and zero tolerance.""
""[Beirut must] authorize the Lebanese army to enforce their part, to keep Hezbollah away beyond the Litani [River] and to dismantle all the infrastructure,"" Katz continued in reference to one of the 13-point agreements in the Wednesday cease-fire that said only the Lebanese army will operate in the area south of the landmark river.
Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz looks on amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas, in Jerusalem on Nov. 7, 2024.(REUTERS/Ronen Zvulun)
IDF SOLDIERS ACCUSE UN PEACEKEEPERS OF ENABLING HEZBOLLAH TERRORISTS AMID INCREASING CEASE-FIRE VIOLATIONS
""If they don¡¦t do it and this whole agreement collapses, then the reality will be very clear. First of all, if we return to war we will act strongly, we will go deeper and the most important thing they need to know, that there will be no longer be an exemption for the state of Lebanon,"" he added.
""Until now we have distinguished between the state of Lebanon and Hezbollah, and between Beirut as a whole and Dahiyeh ¡V which we have struck very hard ¡V this will no longer be,"" Katz warned in reference to the Beirut suburb and previous Hezbollah stronghold.
The defense minister¡¦s comments come after Israel fired a wave of strikes Monday evening that, according to The Associated Press,killed 11 peopleafter Hezbollah launched two mortars at the Mount Dov area in the northern Golan Heights¡Va contested area that is still internationally recognized as part of Syria, though which Israel has occupied since 1967.
The Trump administration recognized Israel's sovereignty over the Golan Heights in 2019. The Biden administration continued with that policy, reaffirming it again in the summer following a deadly Hezbollah rocket attack on the town ofMajdal Shamsthat killed 12 children.
Members of Imam al-Mahdi scouts clean rubble and debris from damaged buildings in Beirut's southern suburbs after the cease-fire between Israel and Hezbollah, in Lebanon on Dec. 2, 2024.(REUTERS/Mohamed Azakir)
AMERICAN-ISRAELI IDF PLATOON COMMANDER KILLED IN BATTLE, BODY HELD IN GAZA, IDF SAYS
The terrorist group said it levied the first strike since the cease-fire was signed less than a week ago inresponse to Israel¡¦s ""repeated violations""involving Lebanese airspace, reported the Times of Israel.
The U.S. and France ¡V which helped broker the truce ¡V on Sunday and Monday alsoreportedly warned Israel it was violatingthe new agreement, including by conducting surveillance drone flights over Beirut.
However, despite the tit-for-tat exchange that has drawn into question the strength of the new cease-fire agreement, White House National Security Council communications adviser John Kirby told reporters on Monday the ""sporadic"" air strikes were to be ""expected.""
""You're talking about a war that's been raging now for actually many years,"" he said.  ""If you think about it, certainly since Oct. 7, we went from hundreds of rocket attacks to basically zero by Hezbollah and dozens of airstrikes by Israel to one or two per day.""
Mourners raise their hands and chant slogans during the funeral procession of Hezbollah fighters who were killed in Friday's Israeli strike, in the southern suburb of Beirut on Saturday, Sept. 21, 2024.(AP)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
""There's been a dramatic reduction in the violence,"" Kirby added.
Kirby said that in anticipation of similar strikes like those exchanged on Monday, there are ""mechanisms"" in place that are working to stop the attacks.
""That mechanism is in full force, and is working,"" he added without going into additional detail.
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news."	4296	
foxnews	NBC¡¦s Chuck Todd says President Biden ¡¥needs therapy¡¦ following son Hunter¡¦s pardon	https://www.foxnews.com/media/nbcs-chuck-todd-president-biden-needs-therapy-son-hunters-pardon	"Voters from Michigan, Georgia and Texas fetter over President Biden's pardoning of Hunter Biden's crimes as one of his last presidential acts with Fox News Digital.
NBC News chief political analyst Chuck Todd offered a profoundly personal critique of President Biden following the commander-in-chief's controversial yet unsurprising decision topardon his son, Hunter.
During his weekly sit-down with commentator Chris Cillizza on Cillizza'sSubstack page, Todd admitted he ""knew 100%"" that Biden would pardon his son¡Xwho was facing sentencing for two criminal cases.
""Joe Biden's got¡Xneeds therapy and I say this with respect. He has not processed Beau's death. He has an issue¡Xhe cannot, he has this issue with Hunter. He second-guesses everything he's done with raising Hunter versus raising Beau. He, I think blames himself for Hunter's inability to conduct himself as an adult for a period of time,"" Todd said.
Beau passed away in 2015 following a battle with brain cancer.
HUNTER BIDEN PARDON: MEDIA TAKES LATEST BLOW TO CREDIBILITY WITH BOTCHED COVERAGE OF BROKEN PROMISE
Chuck Todd suggested that Joe Biden is ""emotionally incapable"" of being president after pardoning his son, Hunter.(Michael Reynolds/EPA/Bloomberg | William B. Plowman/NBC via Getty Images)
Todd, who noted he has had somewhat of a personal relationship with Biden's sons in the past, claimed that Hunter has ""sort of failed at being a human being"" in the last decade.
""There was no doubt that Joe Biden was not going to leave office without doing everything he could to protect his son. Pure and simple,"" Todd added, calling it a ""dad reaction.""
He then went on to suggest that the possibility ofPresident-elect Donald Trumppardoning Hunter was a ""humiliation"" that Biden was never going to put himself through.
HUNTER BIDEN ¡¥LAPTOP FROM HELL¡¦ SCANDAL TURNS 4: HOW MEDIA, INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MISLED AMERICANS
President Biden and Hunter Biden head toward Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House, July 26, 2024.(AP Photo/Susan Walsh)
Todd concluded his response by claiming President Biden was ""emotionally incapable"" of being president and ""probably never should have run.""
In a statement on Sunday night, Hunter Biden said that he would ""never take the clemency"" his father gave him for granted and that he plans to devote his life to helping those with addiction.
The younger Biden, 54, has had a busy year in court, kicking off his first trial in Delaware in June, when he faced three felony firearm offenses, before he pleaded guilty in a separate felony tax case in September.
Biden pardoning his son is a departure fromhis previous remarksto the media over the summer, declaring he would not do so.
Fox News Digitalreached out to the Biden White House for comment, but did not immediately hear back.
Fox News' Emma Colton and Andrea Margolis contributed to this report.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Nikolas Lanum is an associate editor for Fox News Digital."	2955	
foxnews	GOP lawmaker gifts 'chip of the Berlin Wall' to colleagues in bid for top committee spot	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/joe-wilson-gifts-chip-berlin-wall-gop-lawmakers-bid-top-committee-spot	"Hudson Institute senior institute Rebeccah Heinrichs assesses the state of the Israeli-Hezbollah ceasefire, discusses Syrian rebels seizing parts of Aleppo and how the U.S. can aid in negotiations to end the Russia-Ukraine war.
FIRST ON FOX:A senior GOP lawmaker is getting creative with his campaign to chair the HouseForeign AffairsCommittee next year.
Rep. Joe Wilson, R-S.C., is giving fellow lawmakers chips from the Berlin Wall, according to a photo provided by a source to Fox News Digital.
An inscription accompanying the chip suggests Wilson got the pieces himself nearly 35 years ago, an indirect affirmation of his decades of foreign affairs work. ""This symbolizes the collapse of totalitarian communism and the success of democratic capitalism,"" the elaborate display reads.
JOHNSON BLASTS DEM ACCUSATIONS HE VOWED TO END OBAMACARE AS 'DISHONEST'
Rep. Joe Wilson is one of four Republicans running for the House Foreign Affairs Committee gavel.(Getty Images/Fox News Digital)
It said the chip was ""secured by State Senator Joe Wilson on June 12, 1990, at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany.""
""Sen. Wilson was returning from service as a member of the U.S. Observation Delegation of the June 10, 1990, parliamentary elections in the Republic of Bulgaria, that country's first free elections after 59 years of Nazi and Communist dictatorship,"" it said.
Wilson told Fox News Digital the chips ""serve as important symbols of Peace through Strength."" His office also provided a photo of Wilson, then a state lawmaker, chipping portions of the Berlin Wall himself.
""This is a critical time and as Chair I am best positioned to work with President Trump to present a unified, conservative vision for the House Foreign Affairs Committee and American foreign policy,"" he said of his candidacy.
When reached for comment, Wilson's office sent Fox News Digital a photo of the congressman chipping pieces of the Berlin Wall himself(Office of Congressman Joe Wilson)
The race for the House Foreign Affairs Committee gavel is one of the most critical happening ahead of the 119th Congress.
The role will be of particular importance in U.S. relations with the rest of the globe next year, when Republicans are set to control all the mainlevers of powerin Washington, D.C.
REPUBLICANS PROJECTED TO KEEP CONTROL OF HOUSE AS TRUMP PREPARES TO IMPLEMENT AGENDA
Wilson is runningagainst fellow committee members Reps. Ann Wagner, R-Mo., and Darrell Issa, R-Calif. The subcommittee chair for Oversight & Accountability, Rep. Brian Mast, R-Fla., is also in the race.
Wilson is chair of the panel's subcommittee on the Middle East, North Africa and Central Asia.
A photo provided to Fox News Digital shows a chip from the Berlin Wall attached to an elaborate display.(Fox News Digital)
Current Chairman Michael McCaul, R-Texas, is stepping aside in order to adhere to House Republicans' internal conference rules that mandate a lawmaker serve no more than three terms in the top spot on a committee.
MIKE JOHNSON WINS REPUBLICAN SUPPORT TO BE HOUSE SPEAKER AGAIN AFTER TRUMP ENDORSEMENT
""It has been an honor to serve as your Chairman and leader for the last six years,"" McCaul wrote to colleagues in a message obtained by Fox News Digital. ""[O]ut of respect for the will of the Conference, I intend to abide by these rules and support new leadership.""
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
""Serving as Chairman has truly been the most rewarding highlight of my career in Congress! I would like to thank all of you for your hard work and patriotism in confronting the major challenges we face across the Globe.""
Fox News Digital reached out to Wilson's office for comment.
Elizabeth Elkind is a politics reporter for Fox News Digital leading coverage of the House of Representatives. Previous digital bylines seen at Daily Mail and CBS News.
Follow on Twitter at @liz_elkind and send tips to elizabeth.elkind@fox.com"	3906	
foxnews	General involved in Afghanistan withdrawal has promotion confirmed by Senate	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/general-involved-afghanistan-withdrawal-has-promotion-confirmed-senate	"Former President Donald Trump blasts former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Willey for how he handled the US military's withdrawal from Afghanistan.
Lt. Gen. Christopher Donahue ¡V who was seen in the viral, night vision photo showing the final American soldier out ofKabul, Afghanistan¡V was quietly confirmed by the Senate on Monday to lead U.S. Army forces in Europe and Africa.
Donahue, who headed the 82nd Airborne Division during the 2021 withdrawal from Afghanistan, was tapped by President Biden for the promotion to four-star general, but the confirmation was left out of a series of a hundred other military promotions green-lighted by the Senate before Thanksgiving recess. The delay was caused by one senator holding Donahue's confirmation, according to Politico.
Several outlets reported that Sen. Markwayne Mullin, R-Okla., was responsible for the procedural hold.
MAJ. GEN. CHRIS DONAHUE: WHO IS THE LAST AMERICAN SOLDIER TO HAVE LEFT AFGHANISTAN?
Maj. Gen. Chris Donahue, commander of the 82nd Airborne Division, steps on board a C-17 transport plane as the last U.S. service member to leave Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul, Afghanistan, on Aug. 30, 2021.(XVIII Airborne Corps/Handout via Reuters)
Mullin has been a vocal critic of the Biden-Harris administration's handling of the botched withdrawal mired by the killing of13 U.S. service members and roughly 170 Afghan civilians during a suicide bombing at Hamid Karzai International Airport's Abbey Gate. Donahue was responsible for the 82nd Airborne as it was tasked with securing the airfield at the Kabul airport during evacuations before the country fell to the Taliban.
The senator called out Donahue, as well as other officials, in an Aug. 24, 2024, statement on the three-year anniversary of the suicide bombing attack.
""Three years later, not one person has been held accountable for the disaster¡Vnot Gen. Milley, Gen. McKenzie, Gen. Donahue, U.S. Ambassador to Tajikistan John Pommersheim, oranyone at the State Department,"" Mullin said at the time. ""To this day, no one has testified before Congress as to who gave this directive. No one has been held accountable for the 13 brave American heroes who died at Abbey Gate, or the countless Americans who lost their lives trying to escape Kabul.""
President-elect Trump's former defense secretary turned Trump critic,Mark Esper, had defended Donahue's nomination, and urged last month for the hold to be lifted.
Maj. Gen. Christopher Donahue and Polish Gen. Wojciech Marchwica speak to journalists  at the Rzeszow-Jasionka airport in southeastern Poland, on Feb. 6, 2022.(Janek Skarzynski/AFP via Getty Images)
""Responsibility for the disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan in 2021 rests with the White House, not the Defense Dept, and certainly not with the uniformed leaders who faithfully executed Pres Biden¡¦s misbegotten decisions,"" Esper wrote on X.
ARMY UNIT POSTS PHOTO OF LAST US SOLDIER TO LEAVE AFGHANISTAN
Trump had promised on the campaign trail to fire senior officers involved in the withdrawal, though not Donahue specifically.
One U.S. official told NBC News last month that the Trump transition team was compiling a list of senior current and former U.S. military officers to be potentially court-martialed over the pullout.
A sign displaying photos and names of the 13 service members killed in a terrorist attack at Abbey Gate outside Kabul's Hamid Karzai International Airport is seen during a news conference at the U.S. Capitol on Sept. 9, 2024.(Kent Nishimura/Getty Images)
The Senate ultimately confirmed Donahue's promotion to be the commander of US Army Europe-Africa by unanimous consent on Monday, as the hold was dropped. Mullin had not publicly commented about the hold.
Donahue has headed the 18th Airborne Corps at Fort Liberty, North Carolina, since 2022.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
He has also been leader of the Special Operations Joint Task Force Afghanistan and served as the Joint Chiefs of Staff¡¦s deputy director for special operations andcounterterrorism.
Danielle Wallace is a breaking news and politics reporter at Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to danielle.wallace@fox.com and on X:@danimwallace."	4205	
foxnews	McConnell criticizes federal judges for reversing retirement decisions as 'open partisanship'	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/mcconnell-criticizes-federal-judges-reversing-retirement-decisions-open-partisanship	"Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., criticized two district court judges who reversed their announced retirements after former President Trump won re-election last month.
TheSenate GOP leaderon Monday slammed decisions by two federal judges to reverse their announced retirements after Republican former President Trump won re-election in November.
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., criticized the pair of ""partisan Democrat district judges"" after they announced plans to ""unretire"" after ""the American people voted to fire Democrats last month.""
""Looking to history, only two judges have ever unretired after a presidential election. One Democrat in 2004 and one Republican in 2009. But now, in just a matter of weeks, Democrats have already met that all-time record. It's hard to conclude that this is anything other than open partisanship,"" McConnell said in remarks delivered on the Senate floor.
In mid-November, U.S. District Judge Algenon Marbley of Ohio informed President Biden of his intention to stay on the bench after Biden had failed to nominate a replacement for him.
DEMOCRATS ADVANCE 5 MORE BIDEN JUDICIAL NOMINEES
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell takes a question from a reporter following the weekly Senate Republican policy luncheon at the U.S. Capitol on Nov. 19, 2024.(Andrew Harnik/Getty Images)
Marbley, who was appointed byPresident Clinton, said that because a successor had not been confirmed, ""I have therefore decided to remain on active status and carry out the full duties and obligations of the office.""
Meanwhile, U.S. District Judge Max Cogburn of North Carolina, who was appointed by President Obama, has also withdrawn plans to retire, Reuters reported.
Both Marbley and Cogburn had announced plans to take senior status before the election, which would have allowed them to take reduced caseloads until the president appoints a successor.
McConnell said their decisions to rescind their retirements after Trump won points to ""a political finger on the scale."" He urged the incoming Trump administration to ""explore all available recusal options with these judges.""
FEDERAL JUDGE IN OHIO RESCINDS RETIREMENT AFTER TRUMP VICTORY, WITH BIDEN YET TO NOMINATE A SUCCESSOR
U.S. District Judge Algenon L. Marbley, the first Black chief district judge in the Southern District of Ohio's history.(Courtney Hergesheimer/Columbus Dispatch/USA Today Network)
He also warned two sitting circuit court judges, who have announced retirements and have vacancies currently pending before the senate, against making similar decisions to ""unretire.""
""Never before has a circuit judge unretired after a presidential election. It's literally unprecedented. And to create such a precedent would fly in the face of a rare bipartisan compromise on the disposition of these vacancies,"" McConnell said.
He was referring to a bipartisan agreement on judicial nominations last month that secured Trump's ability to appoint four crucial appellate court judges after he assumes office in January.
JUSTICE SONIA SOTOMAYOR FACES PRESSURE TO RETIRE AHEAD OF TRUMP TAKING OFFICE: REPORT
Democratic Majority Leader Chuck Schumer struck a deal with McConnell to confirm several Biden judicial nominees, leaving four circuit court vacancies for Trump to fill next year.(AP/Getty)
Republicans agreed to halt procedural delay tactics and permit Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., to vote on cloture on nine of Biden's district court judges before Thanksgiving and vote to confirm them when they return after the holiday. In exchange, Democrats would pull four circuit court nominees who lack the votes to get confirmed, allowing Trump to fill those vacancies next year.
However, a Democratic source familiar told Fox News Digital that only two of the circuit court vacancies are certain, and the other two may ultimately decide against taking senior judge status.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
McConnell threatenedthat ""significant ethics complaints"" would follow swiftly if any retiring judge reversed their decision to take senior status because Trump won.
""As I repeatedly warned the judiciary in other matters, if you play political games, expect political prizes. So let's hope these judges do the right thing and enjoy their well-earned retirement and leave the politics to the political branches.""
Fox News Digital's Julia Johnson and Kelly Phares contributed to this report.
Chris Pandolfo is a breaking news reporter for Fox News Digital. Send tips to chris.pandolfo@fox.com and follow him on Twitter @ChrisCPandolfo."	4563	
foxnews	Fox News Politics: First Order of Business	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/fox-news-politics-11-26-draft	"Welcome to the Fox News Politics newsletter, with the latest updates on the Trump transition, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
Here's what's happeningÿ
-Special Counsel Jack Smith's federal Trump cases cost taxpayers more than$50 million, financials show
-3 House racesstill uncalled 3 weeks from Election Day
-Federal judge blocks Bidenlabor protections for foreign farmworkers
Incoming border czarTom Homanjoined Gov. Greg Abbott on Tuesday at a key border area in Texas, and will serve meals to troops stationed there over Thanksgiving ¡V praising the governor's ""unprecedented success"" in securing the border, ahead of what is expected to be significant cooperation between the Trump administration and Abbott¡¦s team next year.
Homan and Abbott served meals to Texas National Guard soldiers and Texas Department of Public Safety troopers in Eagle Pass, Texas. Homan praised Abbott for his job.
""Governor Abbott has done an amazing job. Illegal immigration in Texas is down 86%, 86% think about that. This is a model we can take across the country. We're going to help Governor Abbott finish the job he started,"" he said.
Homan was appointed ""border czar"" by President-elect Trump this month after Trump¡¦s election win. A former acting Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) director, Homan will be one of the most high-profile figures in terms of the mass deportation operation the incoming administration has plannedÿ.Read more
This split shows Thomas Homan and Texas troopers dealing with migrants at the southern border.(Photo by Christian Torres/Anadolu via Getty Images and Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images))
'DEPORTER IN CHIEF':Deportations higher under Obama than TrumpÿRead more
'SUIT'ING UP:Dem attorneys general prepare for legal battle with Trump, after filing hundreds of challenges last term: He 'threatens civil rights'ÿRead more
RED WHITE & BLUE CARPET:Glenn Youngkin 'personally invites' new Trump admin to settle in Virginia over Maryland and DCÿRead more
Former President Donald Trump and Virginia Gov. Glenn Youngkin meet for the first time in June 2024.(Trump Campaign)
'USELESS':Tom Cotton slams ¡¥partisans and obstructionists¡¦ in DOD reportedly plotting to block Trump plansÿRead more
'A LOT OF WASTE':'A lot of waste': Blackburn and Ramaswamy talk DOGE cutsÿRead more
HOWARD KURTZ: Why Trump dropped Matt GaetzÿRead more
'BETRAYAL OF PARTY VALUES':DNC union launches GoFundMe to help former staffers hit by massive layoffs after election lossesÿRead more
U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris greet U.S. President Joe Biden as First Lady Jill Biden and Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff look on at the end of the first day of the Democratic National Convention at the United Center on August 19, 2024 in Chicago, Illinois.  Delegates, politicians, and Democratic party supporters are in Chicago for the convention, concluding with current Vice President Kamala Harris accepting her party's presidential nomination. The DNC takes place from August 19-22.(Andrew Harnik/Getty Images)
CHRISTMAS COUNTDOWN:Congress has just weeks to avoid a partial government shutdown after ThanksgivingÿRead more
FILIBUSTER: Kyrsten Sinema responds to Democrats admitting filibuster will help them stop Trump agenda: 'Schadenfreude'ÿRead more
LAST MINUTE:Blinken set to testify on Afghanistan withdrawal in House amid looming contempt voteÿRead more
'GENDER COMMUNISM INDOCTRINATION':NYC elementary school blasted for teaching 'gender identity' course to kindergartenersÿRead more
READY FOR LIFTOFF:Federal judge sides with SpaceX after environmental group tried to stop rocket launchesÿRead more
A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket carrying the Starlink 4-20 mission, launches from Space Launch Complex 40 at NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida, on September 4, 2022. (Photo by CHANDAN KHANNA / AFP) (Photo by CHANDAN KHANNA/AFP via Getty Images)(Photo by CHANDAN KHANNA / AFP) (Photo by CHANDAN KHANNA/AFP via Getty Images))
WHAT'S NEXT:What's next for this popular Republican governor after he leaves office?ÿRead more
Get the latest updates on the Trump presidential transition, incoming Congress, exclusive interviews and more onFoxNews.com.
This article was written by Fox News staff."	4220	
foxnews	Trump hit for hiring loyalists like Pam Bondi: Doesn¡¦t every president do that?	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-hit-hiring-loyalists-pam-bondi-doesnt-every-president-do-that	"FOX Business' Charlie Gasparino joined 'MediaBuzz' to discuss how digital media has overshadowed 'legacy media,' Elon Musk's possible conflicts of interest and Google possibly selling the Chrome browser.
It¡¦s spat out like a dirty word.
Donald Trump¡V take a deep breath ¡V is hiring loyalists.
The president-elect ¡V can you imagine?? ¡V is nominating people he knows will support him. He¡¦s used plenty of curse words, but nothing said by the media is more disdainful than loyalists.
TRUMP DROPPED MATT GAETZ AFTER COMPLAINING ABOUT HIGH POLITICAL COST OF DEFENDING HIM
Now stop and think: Doesn¡¦t every president hire loyalists?
Didn¡¦t Joe Bidensurround himself with folks who had been with him for decades? Ron Klain, Steve Richetti and Tom Donilon created a protective bubble around the president. But few, if any, prognosticators dismissed them as loyalists.
Why? The press generally approved of Biden¡¦s picks, including Tony Blinken; the non-communicative Lloyd Austin (who didn¡¦t tell the boss about his cancer surgery), and the equally non-communicative Janet Yellen. The only person who stood out for great TV skills wasPete Buttigieg, the former presidential candidate and outgoing Transportation secretary.
President-elect Trump has picked former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi to lead the Department of Justice.(Getty Images)
It¡¦s hardly a recent development. George Washington took a team-of-rivals approach, naming Thomas Jefferson secretary of state and Alexander Hamilton as treasury secretary. So did Abraham Lincoln, with Salmon Chase as treasury secretary and William Seward as secretary of war.
But if Trump picks people he expects to support him, the knee-jerk media reaction is that they¡¦re dangerous to the country and will run roughshod over the rule of law.
Trump didn¡¦t make much use of his Cabinet in his first term and I doubt he will this time, except for a handful of top positions. Besides, he runs the show. Any Cabinet member who strays off the reservation can get fired, ""Apprentice""-style. Serving at the pleasure of the president and all that.
HACKER OBTAINS HOUSE ETHICS TESTIMONY ON MATT GAETZ AS TRUMP MAKES CALLS FOR AG NOMINEE
For what it¡¦s worth, Trump wound up with an ideologically balanced Cabinet. The first wave ¡V from Marco Rubio as secretary of state to a spate of current and formermembers of Congress¡V is generally impressive.
But then there was the fiasco over Matt Gaetz, now charging hundreds of dollars for Cameo videos, and such controversial nominees as Pete Hegseth, RFK Jr. and Tulsi Gabbard. And also Dr. Oz. Not to mention animosity toward pro-union Rep. Lori Chavez-DeRemer as labor secretary.
It¡¦s quite obvious that the president-elect likes people he¡¦s seen on TV, and he watches a lot of Fox News.
Jen Psaki speaks onstage during ""Jen Psaki in Conversation with Lawrence O¡¦Donnell - Say More: Lessons from Work, the White House, and the World"" in New York City.(Dia Dipasupil/Getty Images)
But consider: Jen Psaki and Symone Sanders-Townsend were both CNN contributors when they joined the Biden campaign and then held top jobs in the White House. Now they¡¦re hosting or co-hosting shows on MSNBC. Nobody bats an eye because they¡¦re viewed as good guys joining the right team.
From Fox, Trump has picked Army combat veteran Hegseth; ex-Congressman Sean Duffy, a FOX Business co-host, and two frequent medical commentators.
What¡¦s fascinating is the way many in the media have turned on Pam Bondi, a former Florida attorney general and career prosecutor who possesses the experience Gaetz lacked.
TRUMP, DEFYING MEDIA PREDICTIONS, MAINLY PICKS SEASONED CAPITOL HILL VETERANS SUCH AS MARCO RUBIO
Sure, Bondi has said plenty of partisan things over the years, such as ""prosecuting the prosecutors,"" then quickly adding, ""the bad ones."" She was part of Trump¡¦s first impeachment legal team and then ran the legal arm of a pro-Trump PAC.
Bondi was passed over in the first Trump term because she accepted a $25,000 campaign donation from Trump¡¦s foundation while her office was conducting a probe of Trump University (itself a mess).
""Fox & Friends Weekend"" host Pete Hegseth hosts the 2022 Patriot Awards from Hollywood, Fla.(Fox Nation/Bryan Many)
In 2013, Bondi accepted a $25,000 campaign donation from Trump¡¦s foundation at the same time her office was conducting a fraud investigation into Trump University.
""Her acceptance of the donation coincided with her decision not to bring fraud charges against Trump University,"" says MSNBC legal analyst Barbara McQuade. No evidence of a quid pro quo emerged. And a Florida ethics panel cleared her of any wrongdoing. But that¡¦s old news now.
""Bondi has shown a taste for vengeance herself ¡X at the 2016 Republican National Convention, Bondi embraced chants of ¡¥lock her up,¡¦"" McQuade says. ""Even joking about jailing a political opponent is an insult to the rule of law.""
But wait ¡V didn¡¦tBarack Obama¡¦sAG, Eric Holder, describe himself as the president¡¦s ""wingman""? There¡¦s clearly a different standard for Democrats.
Rachel Maddow producer Steve Benen says Bondi ""falsely accused then-special counsel Robert Mueller of leading a ¡¥corrupt¡¦ investigation that was ""worse than Watergate.¡¦""
On the other hand, Dave Aronberg, now state¡¦s attorney for Palm Beach County, lost his race to challenge Bondi as AG, but she hired him anyway as drug czar. ""She¡¦s someone who believes in the rule of law..I do not believe she will be Matt Gaetz 2.0. She is not going to burn it all down.""
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
I suppose it comes down to a question of trust. The pro-Kamala media refuse to give many Trump nominees the benefit of the doubt. Bondi has criticized the weaponization of the DOJ. You might even call her a loyalist.
But she will be the new attorney general, and that will be the ultimate test.
Howard Kurtz is the host of FOX News Channel'sMediaBuzz(Sundays 11 a.m.-12 p.m. ET). Based in Washington, D.C., he joined the network in July 2013 and regularly appears onSpecial Report with Bret Baierand other programs."	6039	
foxnews	Matt Gaetz says he will not serve in the upcoming session of Congress	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/matt-gaetz-says-he-not-serve-upcoming-session-congress	"Fox News senior congressional correspondent Chad Pergram has the latest on the resignation on 'Special Report.'
Former Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz said on a podcast Friday he will not be joining Congress next year,settling an issuethat had been the subject of intense speculation in the hours after he withdrew his name from consideration as attorney general.
Gaetz had resigned last week from the 118th session of Congress, but it was unclear whether he would serve in the 119th session, beginning in January.
Prior to resigning, Gaetz had been under a monthslong investigation by the House Ethics Committee, and the suggestion he might return to Congress touched off a flurry of speculation from members.
MATT GAETZ WITHDRAWS FROM CONSIDERATION TO SERVE AS ATTORNEY GENERAL
Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., is seen after a meeting of the House Republican Conference in the U.S. Capitol on Tuesday, October 3, 2023.(Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images)
Gaetz dismissed that speculation Friday in an interview with podcaster Charlie Kirk.
""There are a number of fantastic Floridians who¡¦ve stepped up to run for my seat, people who have inspired with their heroism, with their public service,""  GaetztoldKirk in an interview on his eponymous podcast. ""And I¡¦m actually excited to see Northwest Florida go to new heights and have great representation.""
Gaetz did say he planned to be part of staffing the incoming Trump administration and praised Trump's pick of former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi to replace him as the top U.S. prosecutor if confirmed by the Senate.
""My good friend Pam Bondi is going to be a phenomenal attorney general for Donald Trump,"" Gaetztold Kirk. ""She has the legal acumen. She hates criminals. She is a bright legal mind and a fellow Floridian.""
The interview comes hours after Gaetz withdrew his name from consideration as Trump's nominee for attorney general on Thursday,citing what he describedas the ""distraction"" his nomination had caused due to a swirl of allegations about paying underage women for sex.
Then-Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., talks to reporters just after House Speaker Kevin McCarthy's last-ditch plan to keep the government temporarily open collapsed, at the Capitol in Washington, Friday, Sept. 29, 2023.(AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)
""While the momentum was strong, it is clear that my confirmation was unfairly becoming a distraction to the critical work of the Trump/Vance Transition,"" Gaetzsaid in announcing the decision.
The House Ethics Committee haddeadlocked days earlier on whether to release their reporton their investigation into Gaetz, which kicked off following a Justice Department investigation in 2021 stemming from allegations related to sex trafficking. The DOJ did not press charges in the matter, and attorneys for Gaetz said in 2023 that the Justice Department had dropped the investigation.
""We have just spoken with the DOJ and have been informed that they have concluded their investigation into Congressman Gaetz and allegations related to sex trafficking and obstruction of justice, and they have determined not to bring any charges against him,"" Gaetz attorneys Marc Mukasey and Isabelle Kirshner said in a statement in February 2023 reported by multiple news outlets.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Gaetz has denied all accusations. In an interview Friday, he stressed that he plans to continue to fight on behalf of the president-elect, despite his decision to resign from Congress.
""I¡¦m going to be fighting for President Trump,"" Gaetzsaid,adding: ""I¡¦m going to be doing whatever he asks of me, as I always have. But I think that eight years is probably enough time in the United States Congress.""
Breanne Deppisch is a politics reporter for Fox News Digital covering the 2024 election and other national news."	3798	
foxnews	"Trump's sway over Republicans stronger than ever, but Sununu says GOP still a 'big-tent party'"	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trumps-sway-over-republicans-stronger-than-ever-sununu-argues-gop-still-a-big-tent-party	"Republican Gov. Chris Sununu of New Hampshire in a Fox News Digital interview says he¡¦s excited to get back to the private sector, but ""we'll see what political chapters write themselves down the road.""
MARCO ISLAND, Fla. ¡X With his convincing White House victory this month,President-elect Donald Trump'sgrip over the Republican Party is firmer than ever.
But a popularRepublican governorwho has long been a vocal critic of the former and future president says that there's still room in the GOP for those outside of the MAGA and America First base.
""The party is a big-tent party. There's no question about it,"" Sununu said in a Fox News Digital interview this week along the sidelines of the Republican Governors Association winter meeting, which was held at a waterfront resort in southwest Florida.
Sununu, who was a top surrogate and supporter of former U.N. ambassador and former South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, Trump's final challenger in the 2024 GOP presidential primaries, backed the Republican nominee in the general election.
EXCLUSIVE: WHAT THE NEW REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS CHAIR TOLD FOX NEWS
Republican presidential candidate Nikki Haley and New Hampshire Gov. Chris Sununu visit a polling location on Jan. 23, 2024, in Hampton, N.H.(Joe Raedle/Getty Images)
""It was a huge victory across the country, and the people of this country have spoken very loudly and unequivocally,"" Sununu said of Trump's electoral college and popular vote victory.
And the governor acknowledged that Trump is ""the standard-bearer of the party"" and ""the voice of the party.""
""But this is a very large party. If it wasn't, he (Trump) wouldn't have won. If it wasn't, we wouldn't have had convincing wins all across this country in a variety of different states,"" Sununu said.
REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS SAY WITH TRUMP ELECTION, ¡¥WE¡¦VE GOT A FRIEND IN THE WHITE HOUSE'
Asked about the president-elect's flurry of announcements on Cabinet nominations this month, Sununu said that ""he definitely has a couple of controversial Cabinet picks that ÿ I don't mind saying I'm not the biggest fan of, but the vast majority of them are terrific."" (Sununu was interviewed before former Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., withdrew his name from consideration as attorney general amid a growing scandal.)
President-elect Donald Trump is shown after speaking at the America First Policy Institute gala at his Mar-a-Lago residence in Palm Beach, Fla., on Nov. 14, 2024.(AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
""He's bringing folks from the private sector, he's bringing in governors, he's bringing in folks that have real experience in all of these issues and that understand the mission, which is fiscal responsibility,"" Sununu said, ""getting regulations out of the way, which effectively lowers costs on business, lowers costs on consumers, lowers costs for everyday citizens.""
Sununu didn't stump on Trump's behalf in swing state New Hampshire, but he crisscrossed the campaign trail on behalf of down-ballot Republicans. The governor was a top surrogate for former Sen.Kelly Ayotte, the GOP gubernatorial nominee who emerged victorious on Election Day and has pledged to continue the Sununu agenda.
Asked if Ayotte's nearly nine and half point win was also a victory for him, Sununu said, ""It was a victory forNew Hampshire.""
Gov.-elect Kelly Ayotte and Gov. Chris Sununu meet in the New Hampshire governor's office at the State House in Concord on Nov. 7, 2024.(Office of New Hampshire governor)
""Kelly's going to be phenomenal. She has that experience as an attorney general, as U.S. senator. She understands how the systems work,"" Sununu said. ""Our transition is already going incredibly smoothly; discussions virtually every single day about all aspects of government, where it's going, how to build good teams and, most importantly ÿ the opportunities to listen to what's happening in the communities.""
""She'll have my cell number. I don't know if she'll need it, because I think she's going to be fantastic on her own, but she'll always have my cell number,"" Sununu said when asked if he'd be offering advice to his successor.
FORMER AND FUTURE GOP RISING STAR SPEAKS WITH FOX NEWS
And pointing to his two Democrat predecessors as governor, who Sununu said shared their cellphone numbers with him: ""We want New Hampshire to be successful. So it's not just me helping Kelly out. It is always a team effort. She's going to have a host of people that she can lean on for any advice when she needs it.""
After mulling a 2024 White House run, Sununu announced in the summer of 2023 that he would launch a presidential campaign, and weeks later he also said he wouldn't seek an unprecedented fifth two-year term steering the Granite State. (New Hampshire and neighboring Vermont are the only two states in the nation to hold gubernatorial elections every two years.)
Gov. Chris Sununu of New Hampshire speaks at a news conference at the State House in Concord on Nov. 15, 2023.(Fox News/Paul Steinhauser)
""I'm excited to get back to the private sector. I like businesses, I like deal sourcing,"" he said. ""I'm not sure exactly what the private sector is going to bring, but I think it's going to be pretty exciting.""
New Hampshire will likely have a competitive Senate contest in 2026 when longtime Democrat Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, a former governor, is up for re-election.
But Sununu reiterated what he told Fox News Digital in July.
""Definitely ruling out running for the Senate in 2026. Yeah, definitely not on my dance card,"" he said.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
But the governor predicted that Republicans will ""have a good candidate. There's no question about it. A couple of different folks that might be interested in running. I think that'd be fantastic. We've had an all-Democrat [congressional] delegation for a long time. I think the people in the state, especially with Kelly's convincing win, would love a different voice, would love just some sort of change.""
Asked if there's another run for office in his future, the 50-year-old governor said he's ""not thinking about that at all, excited for the private sector. And that's all ÿ that's in my windshield.""
But he didn't entirely shut the door, adding, ""We'll see what political chapters write themselves down the road."""	6234	
foxnews	Pam Bondi could fix the DOJ and help provide justice for all	https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/pam-bondi-could-fix-doj-help-provide-justice-all	"Fox News¡¦ Brooke Singman reports on Trump¡¦s latest Cabinet pick after Matt Gaetz withdraws his attorney general nomination.
Tune out the noise and know this: former Florida attorney generalPam Bondiis the force we need to fix the Department of Justice, and Americans can rest assured that weaponizing any part of our nation¡¦s criminal justice system will soon come to a decisive end.
Strong, intelligent and a dear friend and colleague,Bondi is a litigatorI¡¦ve always respected and admired. She served as Florida¡¦s first AG for eight years after a successful 18 years as a county prosecutor where she followed the rule of law and actively listened to constituents who wanted strong and safe communities.
As a former Democrat, she witnessed first-hand the elitism and divisive politics from grassroots to national policy before switching to the GOP in 2000.  Bondi championedanti-human-trafficking legislationwhile helping to bring the issue into the national spotlight, and she justifiably demanded the Department of Justice be diligent and transparent in their investigations of Hunter Biden.
1.4 MILLION ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN US HAVE BEEN ORDERED DEPORTED, BUT HAVE YET TO BE REMOVED: OFFICIAL
I have great confidence that Bondi andPresident-elect Donald Trumprecognize that the hallmark of justice is the equal application of the law, and that this month¡¦s ""red sweep"" of the election is evidence that voters want politicians to stop the rhetoric and solve problems.
Former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi is Trump's new pick as AG. FILE: Bondi stands on stage in an empty Mellon Auditorium while addressing the Republican National Convention on August 25, 2020, in Washington, DC.(Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
When it comes to conservative criminal justice solutions, any crime rate data is meaningless if Americans don¡¦t feel safe. One victim or any single crime-riddled community is one too many. And with the permeation of social media, all of it feels imminent to our own families and neighborhoods.
While some Republicans are reacting to constituents' fears with knee-jerk, ineffective tough-on-crime policies, history has shown us, responding to crime with overly punitive policies doesn¡¦t make any of us safer.
As a former U.S. attorney, I worked closely with the Trump administration to help craft and pass the landmark, bipartisan 2018 First Step Act, and I can tell you that thoughtful, conservative criminal justice solutions work.
CLICK HERE FOR MORE FOX NEWS OPINION
Through improved federal prison programming, targeted sentencing reforms, and other First Step Act directives, public safety has improved. Of the 44,000 individuals released from federal prison under the First Step Act, only 9.7% have been rearrested or reconvicted ¡X an incredible improvement from 46.2% prior to 2018.
Just as the name implies, this landmark law was a first step for Trump and other conservative criminal justice advocates to use smart on crime policy solutions to improve public safety. Conservatives can build on that success by promoting thoughtful conservative policy ideas in our states, counties and at the federal level.
No matter what your party affiliation, we can all agree that one victim is one too many and that criminals must be held accountable. Haphazardly creating new crimes or stiffer sentencing do not deter individual criminals ¡X rather, it is the predictability of being caught that deters individuals from committing a crime.
Further, boots-on-the-ground law enforcement in every capacity needs our support and resources. When forces are stretched too thin with outdated technology and policies, it¡¦s no surprise that only 57.8% of murders and 26.9% of rapes are being solved. Victims deserve better.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
As a former U.S. attorney, I worked closely with the Trump administration to help craft and pass the landmark, bipartisan 2018 First Step Act, and I can tell you that thoughtful, conservative criminal justice solutions work.
As America¡¦s next attorney general, Bondi will empower Americans to work together to find solutions to solve criminal justice problems unique to their own communities and to stand their ground against any attempted weaponization of our justice system.
With Pam Bondi at the helm, the DOJ is on notice that transparency and an equal application of the law is non-negotiable. And with that, conservatives have a real opportunity to be the grown-ups in the room and create criminal justice solutions that are equitable for all Americans today and for generations to come.
CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM BRETT TOLMAN
Brett Tolman is executive director for Right on Crime and former United States attorney for the District of Utah. Tolman was a leading figure in the drafting and passage of the First Step Act, one of the most sweeping reforms of the federal criminal justice system in decades."	4878	
foxnews	Trump's ICE nominee decision could be imminent as deportation plan takes spotlight	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trumps-ice-nominee-decision-could-be-imminent-deportation-plan-takes-spotlight	"National Border Patrol Council President Paul Perez reacts to pushback on President-elect Trump¡¦s deportation promises on ¡¥America Reports.¡¦
FIRST ON FOX:A decision on whom President-elect Trump will nominate to leadImmigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)is expected within the coming days, sources familiar with proceedings tell Fox News Digital ¡V ahead of what could be significant opposition to mass deportations from some Democratic states next year.
Discussions have been held at Mar-a-Lago this week, and a decision could be made as early as Friday. Whoever is nominated will require Senate confirmation.
Who is in the running is unclear. One source said on Thursday that there are still multiple candidates being discussed and that the Trump team has yet to whittle the list down.
WHO ELSE COULD BE ON PRESIDENT-ELECT TRUMP'S IMMIGRATION ¡¥DREAM TEAM?¡¦
Former President Trump speaks during a campaign event in Mint Hill, North Carolina, on Sept. 25.(AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)
Sources hadpreviously suggestedthat John Fabbricatore, a former ICE field officer, and Todd Lyons, currently leading the agency¡¦s Enforcement and Removal Operation (ERO) unit in Boston, were among the top contenders. The transition team is understood to be looking for someone with a deep law enforcement background to lead the agency.
But Fabbricatore is now understood to be out of the running to lead the agency. Lyons is believed to be held in high regard within the agency and by a number of people on the transition team, given his leadership of the Boston unit and his teams¡¦ work in chasing down criminal illegal immigrants who had been released from custody in the sanctuary city.
¡¥100% ON BOARD': BORDER STATE OFFERS TRUMP MASSIVE PLOT OF LAND TO AID MASSIVE DEPORTATION OPERATION
An ICE agent monitors hundreds of asylum seekers being processed upon entering the Jacob K. Javits Federal Building in New York City on June 6, 2023.(David Dee Delgado/Getty Images)
Whoever leads the agency will be in the media and political spotlight in the next year as they spearhead what President-elect Trump has promised will be a historic mass deportation operation.
Trump has appointed formerICE Director Thomas Homanas ""border czar,"" and he is expected to take a leadership role in the efforts to secure the border and launch the mass deportation operation. He has also announced that South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem will be his nominee to lead the Department of Homeland Security.
The transition team has already been eyeing asignificant expansion of detentionin order to facilitate the operation, with an increase in beds and expanded detention capacity near major metropolitan areas.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Those efforts are already drawing significant opposition from Democratic officials in some states. The governors of Illinois, Arizona and Massachusetts have said they won¡¦t assist the administration in the operation. But someRepublican stateshave offered support, with Texas offering more than 1,400 acres of land to stage mass deportations near the border.
Adam Shaw is a politics reporter for Fox News Digital, primarily covering immigration and border security.
He can be reached atadam.shaw2@fox.comor onTwitter."	3221	
foxnews	Ex-CNN anchor who ran for Congress says Democrats have become 'party of the status quo'	https://www.foxnews.com/media/ex-cnn-anchor-ran-congress-says-democrats-become-party-status-quo	"Former CNN host and Democratic congressional candidate John Avlon blasted his party in the wake of its electoral losses this November, including his own.
Former CNN host andfailed Democratic congressional candidateJohn Avlon blasted his party in the wake of its electoral losses this November, including his own.
Avlon, who lost to incumbentRep. Nick LaLota, R-N.Y., in New York's Congressional District 1 race on Election Day, told MSNBC¡¦s ""Morning Joe"" on Friday that voters see the Democratic Party as the ""status quo"" and not strong enough on the issues most urgent most urgent to Americans.
""They can¡¦t be the default party of the status quo. I think that¡¦s the most dangerous place to be. And I think right now they are seen that way,"" Avlon told co-hosts Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski.
NO TRUMP BUMP: MSNBC HEMORRHAGING VIEWERS SINCE ELECTION DAY, SHEDS MORE THAN HALF OF PRIMETIME AUDIENCE
Former CNN host and former Democratic Party congressional candidate John Avlon said that his party has became perceived as ""status quo.""(Screenshot/MSNBC)
The show brought Avlon on to weigh in on what happened to the Democratic Party this cycle, especially as popular liberal candidates were beaten by Republicans. One major loss they brought up was Sen. Bob Casey, D-Pa., who conceded toRepublican candidate Dave McCormickon Thursday, following more than two weeks of vote counting in Pennsylvania.
""Morning Joe"" characterized Casey¡¦s loss as a ""shot across the bow"" from a formidable GOP, and asked Avlon for a postmortem on that loss and others.
The former CNN anchor gave an honest assessment, noting that his party failed in speaking to the most important concerns of American voters.
""I kept thinking of one of my favorite quotes from Bill Clinton,"" he began. ""He said, ¡¥People will vote for strong and wrong every time.¡¦ And I think the Democratic Party has a strength problem on the issues that matter most ¡V personal safety and economic security. I think those are the fundamentals.""
Avlon argued that Democrats were too focused on defense compared to aggressive GOP messaging and then were seen as the status quo. ""Democrats got to get off defense and play offense,"" he said, elsewhere noting that Republicans were able to appear more appealing.
ROSIE O'DONNELL CONDEMNS 'MORNING JOE' CO-HOSTS FOR MEETING WITH TRUMP: 'LAST TIME I EVER WATCH'
Freshman GOP Rep. Nick LaLota defeated former CNN anchor John Avlon in U.S. congressional race for New York on Election Day this year.(Getty Images)
""And so, people will take a chance if they seem like there are bold solutions on the other side.""
Avlon also suggested that his party did not do enough to address the ""civic decline"" that Americans have been feeling. ""But if people feel that that civic decline is going on, Democrats have to be taking that on and being the leaders of that reform, otherwise they¡¦re gonna get caught up in a wave,"" he said.
Later on in the segment, Scarborough pushed back, saying that the Democratic Party had to address other serious issues, like the ""authoritarian"" threat of the Republican Party and President-elect Donald Trump¡¦s so-called ""threats of retribution"" to his political enemies.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Avlon, who repeatedly hammered Trump on such topics during hismedia tenure,admitted that those issues simply weren¡¦t as ""urgent"" as the economy and border security.
""Look, I think life is a struggle between the urgent and the important. And I think for a lot of people the urgent issues they face are about affordability, right... and about feelings of personal safety.""
He continued, ""And here¡¦s where Democrats gotta get the big things right. If people don¡¦t feel safe, if they don¡¦t feel economically secure, everything else is secondary.""
Gabriel Hays is an associate editor for Fox News Digital."	3820	
foxnews	Trump taps Texan Brooke Rollins as agriculture secretary	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-taps-brooke-rollins-agriculture-secretary	"Former Burgum 2024 campaign spokesman Lance Trover and Democratic strategist Harley Lippman align on Trump's Treasury and attorney general picks.
President-elect Trumptapped Brooke Rollins as his agriculture secretary.
In a statement on Saturday, Trump lauded Rollins' ""commitment to support the American Farmer, defense of American Food Self-Sufficiency, and the restoration of Agriculture-dependent American Small Towns.""
""A proud Graduate of Texas A&M University, Brooke earned a Bachelor¡¦s of Science Degree in Agriculture Development, and J.D., with Honors,"" the announcement said. ""From her upbringing in the small and Agriculture-centered town of Glen Rose, Texas, to her years of leadership involvement with Future Farmers of America and 4H, to her generational Family Farming background, to guiding her four kids in their show cattle careers, Brooke has a practitioner¡¦s experience, along with deep Policy credentials in both Nonprofit and Government leadership at the State and National levels.""
""As our nextSecretary of Agriculture, Brooke will spearhead the effort to protect American Farmers, who are truly the backbone of our Country,"" Trump said. ""Congratulations Brook!""
GET TO KNOW DONALD TRUMP'S CABINET: WHO HAS THE PRESIDENT-ELECT PICKED SO FAR?
Brooke Rollins, president and CEO of AFPI, is seen during the America First Policy Institute's America First Agenda Summit at the Marriott Marquis, July 26, 2022.(Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images)
Rollins, who grew up on a farm in Glen Rose, Texas, was a surprise pick for the position. Former Sen. Kelly Loeffler, R-Ga., who met with the president-elect at Mar-a-Lago on Friday afternoon, was rumored to fill the position prior to the official Trump announcement on Saturday.
Rollins was previously rumored to be on the short-list for Trump's pick of chief of staff ¡V which ultimately was given to longtime allySusie Wiles.
TRUMP NAMES SUSIE WILES AS FIRST FEMALE WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF IN HISTORY
Rollins served as director of the Office of American Innovation and acting director of the Domestic Policy Council during the first Trump administration.
Since her time in the TrumpWhite House, Rollins co-founded the pro-Trump America First Policy Institute think tank.
President-elect Trump tapped Brooke Rollins as his agriculture secretary.(Fox News)
If confirmedby the Senate,Rollins would lead a 100,000-person agency with offices in every county in the country. The role includes managing farm and nutrition, forestry, food safety, rural development, agricultural research and more.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
It had a budget of $437.2 billion in 2024.
Sarah Rumpf-Whitten is a breaking news writer for Fox News Digital and Fox Business.
Story tips and ideas can be sent to sarah.rumpf@fox.com and on X:@s_rumpfwhitten."	2817	
foxnews	"Trump will appoint 'dozens' of judges, experts say, despite Dems ramming through nominees in lame-duck session"	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-appoint-dozens-judges-experts-say-despite-dems-ramming-through-nominees-lame-duck-session	"Fox News correspondent Mark Meredith has more on Senate Democrats pushing to approve judicial nominees ahead of Trump's return to White House on 'Special Report.'
Experts sayPresident-elect Donald Trump'schances of appointing judges to the federal bench remain positive, despite Senate Democrats' push to confirm as many of President Biden's picks as possible.
Amid their efforts to appointBiden's judicial picksahead of Trump's administration and a new Congress starting in January, both parties struck a midnight deal Wednesday after Republicans planned to slow down judicial confirmations earlier this week.
The agreement would allowDemocrats to holdvotes on four district court judges in exchange for pulling four higher-tier circuit court judicial nominees, a senior Senate source familiar with the matter told Fox News Digital.
DEMOCRATS ADVANCE 5 MORE BIDEN JUDICIAL NOMINEES
The four vacancies would then be Trump's to fill.
ASenate Majority Leader Chuck Schumerspokesperson told Fox News Digital the trade included four circuit nominees ¡V all of which lack votes to get confirmed ¡V ""for more than triple the number of additional judges moving forward.""
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer addressed the floor Thursday, saying they had confirmed six new judges this past week alone.(Getty Images)
""I¡¦m glad that Republican senators are starting to show up to vote because some of the worst nominees are still awaiting confirmation precisely because they didn't have adequate support,"" Carrie Severino, president of JCN, told Fox News Digital.
When asked about the deal, Devon Ombres, senior director of courts and legal policy at CAPAction said, ""Frankly, I'm at a loss as to why they would get here.""
""It would be nice to see Democratic leadership and the White House try and push through and fill those vacancies where possible,"" Ombres said.
Schumer addressed the floor Thursday, saying they had confirmed six new judges this past week alone ¡V one circuit court judge and five district court judges, bringing Biden's total number of confirmations to 220. Trump notably secured 234 confirmations during his first term.
SENATE SHOWDOWN: GOP SECURES DEAL WITH SCHUMER TO SAVE COVETED APPELLATE JUDGES FOR TRUMP
Despite the push, Ombres stated he predicts circuit judges appointed primarily by former president George W. Bush will take senior status, which would then give Trump additional vacancies to fill. Likewise, Ombres said those appointed by former Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama will avoid taking senior status.
""[Trump will] still have a handful of vacancies that he'll be able to appoint,"" Ombres said. ""But if the Senate Republicans maintain the blue slip process, it will be tougher sledding to appoint in those in blue states, but he will still have an opportunity to bolster where there is already strength, especially the 11th Circuit.""
Experts say President-elect Donald Trump's chances of appointing judges to the federal bench remain positive despite Senate Democrats' push to confirm as many President Biden picks as possible.(AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)
""When Trump comes into office, he's going to have dozens more vacancies to fill,"" Severino said. ""And that's not even counting the judges who will take senior status over the next four years.""
According to a Senate Democrat leadership aide familiar with the agreement reached, the deal allowed for the Senate to vote on cloture on nine district court judges this week and vote to confirm them when they return after Thanksgiving.
The source also noted that the new deal did not mean Republicans were going to allow the Biden district judges to sail through without opposition.GOP senatorsare still expected to fight and vote against the Democrat-nominated judges as they have done throughout Biden's term.
SPRINT TO CONFIRM TRUMP NOMINEES KICKS OFF IN JANUARY
""I think certainly appellate judges are always going to be more important in our judicial system than district court judges,"" Ombres said. ""But district court judges are still capable of instituting nationwide injunctions and striking down programs and issuing sweeping opinions.""
The Senate slowdown was spearheaded bySenate Minority Whip John Thune, R-S.D., who was recently elected as the next Republican Senate leader. Republicans sought to delay the confirmation process through tactical maneuvers on the floor.
The Senate slowdown was spearheaded by Senate Minority Whip John Thune.(Reuters)
Trump has previously been vocal about not wanting judicial confirmations during the lame-duck session, writing on Truth Social, ""No more Judges confirmed before Inauguration Day!""
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Shortly after Senate Dems began to ramp up energy to confirm Biden's judicial picks after the Nov. 5 election, Trump-Vance transition spokesperson Brian Hughes told Fox News Digitalin a statement,""In his first term, President Trump appointed constitutionalist judges who interpret the law as written. He will do so again.""
""He had a wonderful record last time around, and I hope he's going to have a similar track record this time of putting up principled and highly qualified nominees,"" Severino said.
Fox News Digital's Julia Johnson contributed to this report.
Haley Chi-Sing is a Writer for Fox News Digital. You can reach her at @haleychising on X."	5318	
foxnews	Abolish the ATF?: Rep. Burlison wants to eliminate 'disaster agency' he says has been violating 2nd Amendment	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/abolish-atf-rep-burlison-wants-eliminate-disaster-agency-he-says-has-been-violating-2nd-amendment	"Rep. Eric Burlison, R-Mo., discusses why he believes the ATF should be abolished and names other federal entities he thinks should be nixed.
Rep. Eric Burlison, R-Mo., wants to abolish the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and plans to put forward a measure that would do just that.
""The ATF is a disaster,"" Burlison, a member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, told Fox News Digital on Thursday, adding that ""for decades they've been a disaster agency"" which has ""been violating theÿSecond Amendment.""
The congressman suggested that states should be allowed to handle matters themselves, without federal interference.
""There's very few ATF officials,"" he said, accusing the agency of ""co-opting or commandeering [local] law enforcement to enforce laws"" which state lawmakers did not pass.
CONGRESSMAN ERIC BURLISON: IN THE BIDEN ADMINISTRATION, ¡¥THE INMATES ARE RUNNING THE PRISON¡¦
Left: Rep. Eric Burlison, R-Mo., leaves a meeting of the House Republican Conference at the Capitol Hill Club in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 25, 2023; Right: The letters ""ATF"" are seen on a Department of Justice ATF Explosive and Fire Investigation vehicle at the Marine Corps Air Station Airshow in San Diego, California, on Sept. 28.(Getty Images)
The legislator plans to introduce a proposal previously put forward in 2023 bythen-Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla.
Burlison, a freshman who took office last year, was one of the Republicans who joined Gaetz's measure as a cosponsor.
GOP Reps. Lauren Boebert of Colorado, Paul Gosar of Arizona, Mary Miller of Illinois, Andy Biggs of Arizona, Cory Mills of Florida, Mike Collins of Georgia, Barry Moore of Alabama, Thomas Massie of Kentucky and Bob Good of Virginia also joined as cosponsors, according to congress.gov.
MATT GAETZ URGES COLLEAGUES TO ABOLISH THE ATF BEFORE IT STRIPS AMERICANS OF GUN RIGHTS: ¡¥CANNOT BE TRUSTED¡¦
A vest worn by special agents from the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives is seen during a training session near San Marcos, Texas, on Aug. 19, 2010.(Michael Paulsen/Houston Chronicle via Getty Images)
Fox News Digital reached out to the ATF for comment on Friday.
""ATF provides enormous benefits to the American public through all of its efforts fighting violent crime every day,"" ATF spokesperson Kristina Mastropasqua said in an emailed statement.
Burlison also thinks theDepartment of Educationand the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) should be abolished.
GAETZ INTRODUCES ¡¥ABOLISH THE ATF ACT¡¦ AFTER RULING AGAINST STABILIZING BRACES
ATF seal(Ted Soqui/Corbis via Getty Images)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
""The EPA is making one-size-fits-all rules for the entire United States"" and is ""being more harmful thanÿ helpful,"" he said.
Alex Nitzberg is a writer for Fox News Digital."	2799	
foxnews	'Conveyor belt of radicals': GOP slammed over Senate absences that helped Biden score more judges in lame duck	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/conveyor-belt-radicals-gop-slammed-over-senate-absences-helped-biden-score-more-judges-lame-duck	"Fox News senior congressional correspondent Chad Pergram looks at the incoming vice president's efforts to counter potential roadblocks in Congress for some of President-elect Donald Trump's administration picks on 'Special Report.'
Senate Republicans faced criticismover several vote absences this week that allowed Democrats to confirm judges or agree to end debate on nominees that otherwise could have been blocked if each of the missing GOP lawmakers were there.
One particularly crucial vote was on Monday for a lifetime appointment to the 11th U.S. Circuit Court, a coveted appeals court slot to which Democrats did not have the votes to confirm President Biden's nominee, since outgoing Sen. Joe Manchin, I-W.Va., voted against.
However, since Sens. Mike Braun, R-Ind., Steve Daines, R-Mont., Bill Hagerty, R-Tenn., JD Vance, R-Ohio, and Marco Rubio, R-Fla., did not vote, the nominee was confirmed by 49 votes to 45 votes.
DSCC HOPEFUL GILLIBRAND SAYS DEMS SHOULD HAVE PUT IMMIGRATION FIX ON TABLE '2 YEARS AGO'
Joe Biden and Chuck Schumer scored judicial wins as a result of GOP Senate absences.(Reuters)
""This leftist judge would have been voted down and the seat on the important 11th circuit would have been filled by Donald Trump next year had Republicans showed up,"" wrote Gov. Ron DeSantis, R-Fla., on X. ""Now, the leftist judge will have a lifetime appointment and the people of FL, AL and GA will suffer the consequences.""
Mike Davis, the former chief counsel for nominations to former Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, told Fox News Digital, ""A senator¡¦s only job is to show up and vote.""
""President Biden is jamming through bottom-of-the-barrel radical left-wing judges for lifetime appointments to the federal bench after the American people voted for dramatic change. Senate Republicans must do everything they can to stop this lame-duck conveyor belt of radicals. But if these Senate Republicans cannot even show up to vote, let alone debate for four hours on each judge, why should we vote for these deadbeat senators?""
Davis is also founder and president of the Article III Project.
GOP SENATOR DEBUTS BILL TO ABOLISH EDUCATION DEPARTMENT FOLLOWING TRUMP CAMPAIGN PROMISE
DeSantis criticized Republicans over a circuit court confirmation.(AP Photo/Charlie Neibergall)
A senior Senate source confirmed to Fox News Digital that there was irritation among the Republican conference about their colleagues' absences. The most vocal about it was Sen. Thom Tillis, R-N.C., they said.
In a statement,Vice President-elect Vancesaid, ""As a co-chairman of the transition, it¡¦s vital that I¡¦m focused on making sure President Trump¡¦s government is fully staffed with people who support his America First agenda and will be ready to hit the ground running on January 20th.""
""However, it¡¦s also important to me to do everything in my power to block more radical judges from getting confirmed. So while it may be outside of the norm for an incoming VP to take Senate votes in the lame duck period, if my colleagues here in the Senate tell me that we have a real chance of beating one of these nominees, I¡¦ll move heaven and earth to be there for the vote,"" he added.
SENATE SHOWDOWN: GOP SECURES DEAL WITH SCHUMER TO SAVE COVETED APPELLATE JUDGES FOR TRUMP
In a separate statement, Brian Hughes, Trump-Vance Transition spokesman said, ""We cannot allow Chuck Schumer to play games with the transition¡¦s ability to staff the incoming administration. Under no circumstances should we allow radical left judges to be jammed through the Senate at the 11th hour, but the Vice President-elect is needed for the transition to continue working ahead of schedule.""
Vance is notably the first senator in over a century to vote on a judicial nomination after being elected to be vice president.
The vice president-elect was at the Capitol during the latter part of the week facilitating meetings between senators and Trump selections for key administration posts.
Vance was in attendance for pivotal votes on Wednesday, while some Republicans were still absent.
A spokesperson for Daines pointed Fox News Digital to an X post from the senator, in which he detailed travel issues he ran into on his way to Washington, D.C. ""Runway closed due to ice, then prolonged de-icing, then a medical emergencyÿthen Delta flight attendants timed out. Landed DC at 10 pm and voting until ~ midnight,"" he said.
Vance said he would ¡¥move heaven and earth¡¦ to be at crucial votes.(Stephen Maturen/Getty Images)
Daines' office said he went immediately to the Senate floor to vote once he finally landed in the capital.
The offices of Braun, Hagerty and Rubio did not provide comment to Fox News Digital in time for publication. Rubio was recently selected by Trump to be his nominee for Secretary of State.
While the circuit court confirmation was the most important vote that GOP absences helped to advance, it wasn't the only case of it happening this week.
Braun, Hagerty, Vance, Rubio and Sens. Kevin Cramer, R-N.D., and Ted Cruz, R-Texas were absent for a vote on a district court nominee on Tuesday that was ultimately confirmed, despite Manchin opposing and Democrats not otherwise having enough votes.
Cruz was in Texas on the day of the vote with Trump and billionaire Elon Musk for the launch of a SpaceX rocket. The senator is the soon-to-be chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and told reporters this week that space legislation ""will be a significantly higher priority of the full committee.""
DEMOCRAT TAMMY BALDWIN DETAILS RECIPE FOR RUNNING IN A SWING STATE AFTER VICTORY IN TRUMP-WON WISCONSIN
He cited his trip to the launch, saying, ""My number-one priority is jobs. And commercial space generates tens of thousands of jobs across Texas and across the country.""
Cramer's office did not provide comment in time for publication.
On Wednesday, both Cruz and Braun missed another district judge confirmation that Manchin opposed, handing Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., and Biden another accomplishment.
Braun further missed another Wednesday vote on a district judge that was opposed by outgoing Sen. Kyrsten Sinema, I-Ariz., allowing the nominee to be confirmed.
Braun was elected to be Indiana's next governor.(Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images)
On Wednesday, Tillis spoke on the Senate floor on the subject. ""Schumer's trying to ram through Biden's liberal judicial nominees. We can block some of them, but it requires ALL GOP senators to be here. VP-elect [Vance] is a busy man right now, but he's still here on the Senate floor holding the line, and so should all of our GOP colleagues,"" he wrote on X.
The outgoing Indiana senator returned on Wednesday evening before Republicans managed to make a deal with Schumer on further judicial confirmation votes, securing four vacancies on valuable circuit courts for Trump in exchange for allowing votes on a number of district court judges without further stalling.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
One GOP senator told Fox News Digital thatSenate Minority Whip John Thune, R-S.D., who was recently elected to be the next GOP Senate leader, applied pressure to absent senators such as Vance, Rubio and Braun, which resulted in the ultimate deal with Schumer.
A senior Senate Republican source familiar told Fox News Digital that Thune underscored the importance of attendance at the GOP conference, especially concerning judicial confirmation votes.
Julia Johnson is a politics writer for Fox News Digital and Fox Business, leading coverage of the U.S. Senate. She was previously a politics reporter at the Washington Examiner.
Follow Julia's reporting on X at@JuliaaJohnson_and send tips toJulia.Johnson@fox.com."	7716	
foxnews	Hochul spearheads plan to pay NYers to switch to green appliances amid state money woes	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/hochul-spearheads-plan-pay-nyers-switch-green-appliances-amid-state-money-woes	"Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
New York is rolling out a new incentive for residents who switch togreen alternativesfor their household appliances.
In an announcement Thursday, Gov. Kathy Hochul revealed that her state will be the first to offer a rebate under a new Appliance Upgrade Program.
The rebate, funded by the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), offers low- and moderate-income households up to $840 if they switch out their fossil fuel-powered clothes dryers with heat pump-powered alternatives.
""New York is demonstrating its continued commitment to ensuring an equitable energy transition by leveraging all federal funds available to incentivize consumers to make energy-efficient appliance purchases a priority,"" Hochul said in a statement.
EXPERTS RIP ¡¥TRIPLE CROWN OF BAD REGS¡¦ AS BIDEN ADMIN POSTS GAS STOVE RULE IT DENIED WAS A BAN
New York Gov. Kathy Hochul speaks during an announcement on the inclusion of money for the Mental Health and Public Safety Budget for fiscal year 2025 at Midtown Community Justice Center in New York City on April 24.(Lev Radin/Pacific Press/LightRocket)
""As a result of these new rebates, low- and moderate-incomeNew Yorkerswill save energy and money while doing their laundry with modern technology that will reduce emissions,"" she added.
5 INSANE BIDEN-HARRIS APPLIANCE REGULATIONS HEADING YOUR WAY
The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) also praised the new initiative.
""NYSERDA is pleased to start distributing this IRA funding for home appliance rebates through a customer-centric approach that ensures low-and moderate-income New Yorkers can easily upgrade inefficient clothes drying equipment or purchase a dryer for the first time,"" NYSERDA said.
The handout comes as New York ranks as having the second-highest debt burden in the nation in 2021, according to the New York State Comptroller.
New York Gov. Kathy Hochul revealed that her state will be the first to offer a rebate under a new Appliance Upgrade Program.(George Frey)
The comptroller's office released a report on the state's financing plan, which projected New York would issue over 3.4 times more debt than it will retire over the next five years.
New York has been pushing to phase out fossil fuels in the state but has been previously criticized for its initiatives.
Officials announced in May 2023 that beginning in 2026, New York will prohibit gas stoves and heating systems for new construction of buildings seven stories or fewer, according to reports.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
""I think it's ridiculous, and I think the danger is that it almost seems comedic and so people can take it, you know, maybe not as seriously as they should,"" New York Senate Minority Leader Rob Ortttold Fox News Digitalin an interview before the ban. ""It is going to increase people's utility rates in the state of New York, it is going to decrease energy reliability in the state of New York, and it will do nothing to fight climate change.""
Aubrie Spady is a Writer for Fox News Digital."	3083	
foxnews	Ric Grenell under consideration to be Trump's point man on Ukraine: report	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/ric-grenell-under-consideration-trumps-point-man-ukraine-report	"Fox News senior strategic analyst Gen. Jack Keane (Ret.) joins 'Fox & Friends' to discuss the escalation after a former Ukrainian military official declared 'WWIII has begun.'
Richard ""Ric"" Grenell, the former actingdirector of National Intelligencein President-elect Trump's first administration, is reportedly under consideration to be special envoy for the Russia-Ukraine conflict.
Currently, there is no special envoy responsible for bringing an end to the war in Eastern Europe. Trump is strongly considering whether to create the role, Reuters reported, citing four sources familiar with the president's deliberations.
If he does create the new position, Grenell is said to be a leading candidate, though Trump may select someone else, the sources told Reuters. There is also no guarantee that Grenell would accept the position if it were offered to him, the sources reportedly said.
HERE ARE THE MOST TALKED-ABOUT CANDIDATES FOR TOP POSTS IN TRUMP'S ADMINISTRATION
Ric Grenell, former acting director of National Intelligence, during the closing campaign event with former US President Donald Trump, not pictured, at Van Andel Arena in Grand Rapids, Michigan, on Monday, Nov. 4, 2024.(Sarah Rice/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
Fox News Digital was previously told Grenell was under consideration to be U.S. Secretary of State. Florida Sen.Marco Rubiowas instead named to lead the State Department.
Neither Grenell nor the Trump transition team responded to requests for comment.
GET TO KNOW DONALD TRUMP'S CABINET: WHO HAS THE PRESIDENT-ELECT PICKED SO FAR?
Former Acting Director of National Intelligence of the U.S. Richard Grenell, Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT), U.S. Republican presidential nominee, former President Donald Trump and conservative radio host Glenn Beck participate in a private roundtable discussion during a campaign rally at Findlay Toyota Center on October 13, 2024, in Prescott Valley, Arizona.(Rebecca Noble/Getty Images)
Trump repeatedly made campaign promises to quickly resolve the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, if elected, although he has never laid out a specific plan to end the war.
Grenell, an outspoken Trump loyalist, has made statements in the past that may be of concern to Ukrainian leadership.
¡¥NEW¡¦ RUSSIAN MISSILE USED AGAINST UKRAINE NOT HYPERSONIC, DEFENSE OFFICIALS SAY
Former Acting Director of National Intelligence Ric Grenell speaks on stage on the third day of the Republican National Convention at the Fiserv Forum on July 17, 2024, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.(Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
During a Bloomberg round table in July, he advocated for the creation of ""autonomous zones"" as a means of settling the conflict, which began after Russia invaded Ukrainian sovereign territory. He also suggested he would not be in favor of Ukraine joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in the immediate future, a position he shares with many Trump allies.
Grenell's supporters note he has had a long diplomatic career and has a deep knowledge of European affairs. In addition to serving as ambassador to Germany, Grenell was also a special presidential envoy for Serbia and Kosovo peace negotiations.
CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Prior to working for the first Trump administration, Grenell was a U.S.State Departmentspokesman to the United Nations under President George W. Bush. He has advised various Republican candidates and was a foreign policy spokesman for Mitt Romney during the 2012 presidential campaign.
Grenell was previously a Fox News contributor.
Reuters contributed to this report.
Chris Pandolfo is a breaking news reporter for Fox News Digital. Send tips to chris.pandolfo@fox.com and follow him on Twitter @ChrisCPandolfo."	3692	
foxnews	"MSNBC contributor trashes network, shreds 'Morning Joe' colleagues over Trump meeting: 'This is not working'"	https://www.foxnews.com/media/msnbc-contributor-trashes-network-shreds-morning-joe-colleagues-trump-meeting	"Washington Post columnist Jennifer Rubin went viral for the messaging advice she offered to Democrats.
MSNBC contributor Jennifer Rubin went on an unprecedented tear against her own network as well as her ""Morning Joe"" colleagues Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski on her podcast, defiantly criticizing her employer's business model and ratcheting up her attacks towards the duo for revealing their meeting with President-elect Donald Trump.
On Friday's installment of ""Jen Rubin's Green Room,"" Rubin accused Scarborough and Brzezinski of ""forgetting"" that their audience ""despises Trump"" and that viewers wanted them to ""hold the line against Trump"" instead of engaging with the incoming president.
""What were they thinking? Who do they think their audience was?"" Rubin asked. ""Well, perhaps this wasn't about their audience. Perhaps this was them trying to defend themselves or avoid retribution that they thought was coming their way. But really, these are rich, famous people. What have they got to worry about? It was just an appalling example at how eager so many elites are to fall in line, to curry favor, to deflect attention, to deflect any kind of incoming criticism that might come their way from the White House.""
MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR FUELS ¡¥MORNING JOE¡¦ BOYCOTT AFTER TRUMP MEETING: THEY DON'T ¡¥APPRECIATE¡¦ THEIR AUDIENCE
MSNBC contributor Jennifer Rubin continued lobbing attacks towards her ""elite"" colleagues Mika Brzezinski and Joe Scarborough over their meeting with President-elect Donald Trump.(William B. Plowman/NBC/NBC Newswire/NBCUniversal via Getty Images; Dia Dipasupil/Getty Images)
""So they are getting hammered for it. They are hemorrhaging their audience. And this, of course, only exacerbates the reason and the problem why MSNBC and its other cable networks are being spun off. And that is, cable television is dying,"" Rubin said. ""Most of you probably haven't watched MSNBC since the election either, and not understanding your audience and continuing to serve up the same chewed-over talking points with the same panels, essentially same program day, after day, after day, hour after hour, is no longer working. So Comcast has said, 'Fine, spin you off. You guys go fend for yourselves. And the question after the spin-off is completed will be whether that's a viable business model. Can they afford to pay Rachel Maddow, God bless her, 20 plus million dollars a year? Is there advertising to support that? Are there cable fees to support that? We don't know. We don't know if MSNBC, a year from now, is gonna exist, or whether it's gonna be in some slim down fashion.""
WASHINGTON POST COLUMNIST CLAIMS ¡¥REPUBLICANS WANT TO KILL YOUR KIDS: ¡¦IT'S ACTUALLY TRUE'
Rubin, also a Washington Post columnist, went on by offering suggestions on how MSNBC can ""rethink their model.""
""Get rid of the pattern of chewing over the same three or four stories all day long with a shuffling of panelists all parroting back the same line to the host, this is not working. It's boring. It's not good TV. They need to do something else, and they should look to models that are successful,"" Rubin said. ""They should look to people like The Onion. Hey, they've purchased Info Wars. I can't wait to watch what they're gonna program. They should look to shows that, yes, are perhaps lighter on the news, but actually have much more information than they do.""
Rubin took several swipes at her employer MSNBC on her podcast.(Kim Kulish/Corbis via Getty Images)
She went on to say that viewers ""get more from a John Oliver monologue"" than they do ""from a day or two of watching CNN or MSNBC.""
""And by the way, I'm an MSNBC contributor,"" Rubin reminded her liberal audience. ""At least I have the honesty, I have the candor, to tell you this is not gonna work, and this is not continuing to work. And what's more, by hanging on to these legacy outlets that are failing, I think Democrats fail to explore other options. They fail to look for other avenues to communicate with the public. They are relying on dying outlets in a dying industry, cable TV news, and they have to be way more innovative, way more creative in figuring out ways to reach people, including people who don't like politics all that much, and that's the big challenge. Those were the people who, frankly, went along voting for Trump because they did not know too much about what he had in mind and what he had planned, and really his threat to their well-being.""
MSNBC'S FUTURE A ¡¥BIG CONCERN¡¦ FOR STAFFERS AS COMCAST MOVES TO SEPARATE LIBERAL NETWORK FROM NBCUNIVERSAL
""So I think once we get past a stage in which we are doing the same thing over and over again, otherwise known as the definition of insanity- if you expect a different result, then perhaps we can experience some innovation, and maybe we can expect something better from newsÿ But you know one thing, you can always come here, because I'm gonna tell you what I think. I'm gonna be provocativeÿ  We're gonna tell the truth. We're gonna talk to you. I want to hear from you, because unlike Mika and Joe, I care about my audience, and I wanna hear what you think,"" Rubin added.
Rubin did not immediately respond toFox News Digital's request for comment. A spokesperson for MSNBC declined to comment.
Rubin said viewers ""get more from a John Oliver monologue"" than they do ""from a day or two of watching CNN or MSNBC.""(William B. Plowman/NBC/NBC Newswire/NBCUniversal via Getty Images)
While Rubin is currently urging MSNBC to get rid of the formula of ""panelists all parroting back the same line to the host,"" she was notablyvocal against NBC's hiringof former RNC chairwoman Ronna McDaniel (she was fired following swift backlash from the network's liberal stars).
Ruben previously fueled a boycott against ""Morning Joe.""
""The market works great. You can stop watching Morning Joe anytime,"" Rubinwroteon social media Monday.
She then added on thesocial media site BlueSky:, ""On MJ: If you don't appreciate the audience you have, betray that audience and lose their trust you are [going] to lose lots of them. I have seen this movie.""
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Rubin was also outspoken against her other employer The Washington Post and its billionaire over Jeff Bezos over his decision to halt the paper's endorsement of Vice President Kamala Harris just days before the election.
""First of all, I do not believe the reason stated. I don't believe they have suddenly decided¡X he has suddenly decided that we should endorse everybody except presidential candidates, and that of all the elections, this is the one to start with this new policy,"" Rubinsaid on her podcast last month. ""We endorsed a presidential candidate in 2020 no problem. And I perceive this, and even if it's not intended, it is inevitably perceived as bending the knee to Donald Trump at the worst possible moment when democracy is on the line.""
""You have a billionaire who has a business aside from the Post that does business with the federal government deciding not to run afoul of a man who has declared war on democracy and on the free press, and I still find it absolutely inconceivable that someone who owns a newspaper would do this,"" she continued.""
Joseph A. Wulfsohn is a media reporter for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to joseph.wulfsohn@fox.com and on Twitter: @JosephWulfsohn."	7323	
foxnews	Bill Maher vows he won't 'pre-hate' incoming Trump administration: 'Let's see what the disruptors can do'	https://www.foxnews.com/media/bill-maher-says-he-wont-pre-hate-incoming-trump-administration-lets-see-what-disruptors-can-do	"¡¥Outnumbered' panelists discuss the newly formed Department of Government Efficiency¡¦s plans to overhaul government spending.
""Real Time"" hostBill Mahervowed that he wouldn't ""pre-hate"" the incoming Trump administration despite his own personal animosity towards President-elect Donald Trump.
""They are calling themselves the ¡¥disruptors,'"" Maher began during a panel discussion Friday night. ""The country does need disrupting. I mean, the country needs a colonic and a slap in the face so bad.
""This is not who I would choose to administer the colonic, but it's not like the bureaucracy isn't bloated. It's not like the debt isn't $36 trillion. It's not like there aren't thousands of regulations that do stop people from living lives that they could live better and don't do anything. There is woke in the military. Whatever they're going afterÿ I'm not going to pre-hate anything,"" Maher said.
""Do I have really good, optimistic feelings about it? No, I don't. I'm just not gonna pre-hate. I can't get into that mind[set]. Let's see what the disruptors can do. Because, quite frankly, the experts have just sort of, like, let something go for so long that it's just sclerotic now and constipated.""
BILL MAHER SAYS ¡¥MY HEAD¡¦S NOT EXPLODING' OVER TRUMP PICKING RFK JR. FOR HHS: ¡¥WE DO NEED SHAKING UP¡¦
""Real Time"" host Bill Maher vowed to not ""pre-hate"" the incoming Trump administration, saying ""Let's see what the disruptors can do.""(Screenshot/HBO)
The HBO star offered some skepticism towards how effective the ""disruptors"" will be when the ""corn lobby,"" ""pharmaceutical industry"" and ""defense contractors"" begin voicing their objections towards the administration's policies.
""Let's see what happens,"" Maher said.
MAHER BLASTS LEFT ¡¥DOUBLING DOWN¡¦ ON WHAT ¡¥F---ED¡¦ THEM IN ELECTION: ¡¥TAKE ONE WEEK TO ASK WHAT YOU DID WRONG¡¦
Later in the conversation, Maher conceded that Trump was correct in his assessment on how to resolve the Russia-Ukraine war after mentioning the Biden administration allowing Ukraine to fire US-made missiles into Russia, fueling fears of further escalation by the Kremlin.
""It just looks like everybody's coming on board to the idea that, I hate to admit it, Trump said at the beginning, it's gonna be a negotiated settlement. Marco Rubio was saying- he's going to be Secretary of State,"" Maher said. ""And I feel like ¡V that they are losing the war, Ukraine. And they are noble, and we support them, certainly in spirit, should we do it as we have been?""
Maher admitted that President-elect Donald Trump was right about his stance that the Russia-Ukraine war ends through negotiations versus aiding Ukraine.(AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)
He went on to compare the ongoing war to last week'shighly-watched boxing matchbetween 27-year-old influencer Jake Paul and 58-year-old boxing legend Mike Tyson.
""I remember a week ago, and I was leaving here, everyone was talking about it. 'Oh, what's gonna happen?' And then you saw the fight and you realize- we kind of really knew in the rational part of our brain from the beginning that a 58-year-old man who was over the hill in the '90s was not gonna beat this [27]-year-old behemoth. And yet we all were like, ¡¥Maybe ¡V oh, I¡¦m gonna go home and watch it!' Maher said.
CLICK HERE FOR THE LATEST MEDIA AND CULTURE NEWS
Maher compared the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war to the recent boxing match between 27-year-old Jake Paul and 58-year-old Mike Tyson.(AP Photo/Julio Cortez)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Last week, Maher appeared open-minded about the prospect of Robert F. Kennedy Jr.leading the Department of Health and Human Services, saying ""we do need shaking up.""
""Well, the system as it is, the way we do health, is already very f---ed,"" Maher said. ""So maybe he'll make it worse. But, like, my head is not exploding about it.""
Joseph A. Wulfsohn is a media reporter for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to joseph.wulfsohn@fox.com and on Twitter: @JosephWulfsohn."	3955	
foxnews	"Who is Pam Bondi, Trump's new pick for attorney general?"	https://www.foxnews.com/politics/who-pam-bondi-trumps-new-pick-attorney-general	"Fox News¡¦ Brooke Singman reports on Trump¡¦s latest Cabinet pick after Matt Gaetz withdraws his attorney general nomination.
Just hours afterformer Florida Congressman Matt Gaetzwithdrew his name from consideration to be attorney general, President-elect Trump tapped former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi as his AG nominee.
""For too long, the partisanDepartment of Justicehas been weaponized against me and other Republicans ¡V Not anymore,"" Trump wrote in his announcement. ""Pam will refocus the DOJ to its intended purpose of fighting Crime, and Making America Safe Again.
""I have known Pam for many years ¡V She is smart and tough, and is an AMERICA FIRST Fighter, who will do a terrific job as Attorney General!""
Bondi chairs the Center of Litigation and co-chairs the Center for Law and Justice at the America First Policy Institute.
PRESIDENT-ELECT TRUMP ANNOUNCES PAM BONDI AS HIS NEW PICK FOR US ATTORNEY GENERAL
Here's what to know about Trump's new AG pick:
Bondi, 59, is a Tampa native and earned her bachelor's degree in criminal justice from the University of Florida and her law degree from Stetson Law School. She was admitted to the Florida Bar in 1991.
She worked as a prosecutor out of the Hillsborough County State Attorney's Office for more than 18 years, trying a variety of cases fromdomestic violence to murder.
After former Florida Congressman Matt Gaetz withdrew his name from consideration to be attorney general, President-elect Trump tapped former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi as his AG nominee.(Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images)
Bondi made history in 2010 as the state's first female attorney general. Her campaign emphasized challenging the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, and later focused on human trafficking issues once in office. She also notably shut down pill mills and tackled the state's opioid crisis.
She held the post until 2019.
Bondi worked as one ofTrump's defense lawyersin 2020 after he was first impeached on allegations that he had abused his power and obstructed Congress.
""They have not charged the president with any crime because the president did nothing wrong,"" Bondi said when articles of impeachment were sent by the House to the Senate. ""There was no crime. The transcript of that phone call speaks for itself.""
MATT GAETZ WITHDRAWS FROM CONSIDERATION TO SERVE AS ATTORNEY GENERAL
Bondi also worked on Trump's Opioid and Drug Abuse Commission during his first administration. In her role on the commission, Bondi collaborated with national leaders on drug prevention and treatment.
Bondi is a partner at Ballard Partners, a Florida-based lobbying firm founded by Brian Ballard. Bondi splits her time between Florida and Washington, D.C., chairing the firm's corporate regulatory practice.
Trump's incoming chief of staff, Susie Wiles, is also linked to the firm after becoming a partner there after Trump's 2016 victory.(Getty)
The D.C. office notably earned more than $70 million in lobbying fees during Trump's first term by representing various corporate clients, according to federal disclosures.
Trump's incoming chief of staff, Susie Wiles, also works for the firm after becoming a partner there following Trump's 2016 victory.
WITH GAETZ DROPPING OUT, DO HEGSETH, RFK JR. AND GABBARD NOW HAVE BIGGER TARGETS ON THEIR BACKS?
Bondi has been vocal in her criticism about Trump's prosecutions, going so far as appearing alongside Trump inNew York Cityduring his hush money trial.
Bondi has been vocal in her criticism over prosecutions of Trump, going as far as appearing alongside the former president in New York City during his hush money trial.(Getty)
""They make it sound like it's a first-degree murder case, and I've tried plenty of trial cases, Trace, and never seen anything like this,"" Bondi told Fox News host Trace Gallagher in April, shortly after Trump was issued a gag order in his New York case.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
""They're trying to gag him not only of his First Amendment rights but of defending himself,"" Bondi said at the time.
Fox News Digital's Chris Pandolfo contributed to this report.
Haley Chi-Sing is a Writer for Fox News Digital. You can reach her at @haleychising on X."	4212	
foxnews	"Director of iconic Cold War thriller ¡¥Red Dawn¡¦ is 'very happy' Trump won, daughter says"	https://www.foxnews.com/media/director-iconic-cold-war-thriller-red-dawn-john-milius-very-happy-trump-won-daughter-says	"Actor Robert Davi reacts to President-elect Trump's victory and the reactions from Hollywood.
Iconic director John Milius was thrilled about President-electDonald Trump's victory, according to his daughter.
""Obviously he was very happy,"" Amanda Milius, a filmmaker and former Trump administration official, toldFox News Digitalin an exclusive interview. ""We agreed that we both had ¡V and I think a lot of people who felt this way ¡V had like more of a sense of relief than this, like, exuberant, overjoyed excitement, which is what we all felt in 2016.""
John Milius, the director of 1980s classics like ""Red Dawn"" and ""Conan the Barbarian"" as well as the Oscar-nominated screenwriter of ""Apocalypse Now,"" has kept a relatively lower profile in recent years following a stroke he suffered in 2010. But Amanda says he keeps up with politics as much as ever.
""My dad's been a Trump guy, honestly, since 2014,"" Amanda said. ""My dad has been on Team Trump since, like, the moment you could be.""
¡¥FAMILY TIES¡¦ STAR JUSTINE BATEMAN SAYS TRUMP'S ELECTION LIFTED ¡¥SUFFOCATING CLOUD¡¦ ON FREE SPEECH
""Red Dawn"" director John Milius was ""very happy"" about President-elect Donald Trump's victory, according to his daughter Amanda.(Greg Doherty/Getty Images for Asian World Film Festival)
Amanda told Fox News Digital that unlike most in liberal Hollywood, her father didn't think so fondly of Vice PresidentKamala Harris.
""He hated her!"" Amanda chuckled. ""I mean, he was just laughing at the idea of it. He just thought it was ridiculous. He thought the concept of Kamala Harris being presidentÿ he has a very over-the-top way of putting thingsÿ but he basically said that anyone who would consider voting for her for president was just an idiot. He's like, 'There's no ¡V there's no way this can be serious.' Like, it was just as unserious as Joe Biden. It was the whole thing was unserious.""
""He had, I think, a bit more vitriol for Hillary [Clinton] because, you know, she'd been around longer and he'd had more time to form opinions about her. But he was not impressed, I guess we can say that,"" she added.
MAHER BLASTS LEFT ¡¥DOUBLING DOWN¡¦ ON WHAT ¡¥F---ED¡¦ THEM IN ELECTION: ¡¥TAKE ONE WEEK TO ASK WHAT YOU DID WRONG¡¦
Amanda Milius says her father, filmmaker John Milius, has been a ""Trump guy"" before the president-elect even launched his first bid for the White House.(Joshua Blanchard/Getty Images for EPIX)
Amanda described her father as ""always [being] on the outside politically of Hollywood"" but was never fond of fellow filmmakers and entertainers weighing in on politics. And in 2024, Harris had some of the biggest names rallying behind her from Oprah Winfrey, Meryl Streep, George Clooney, and Julia Roberts to music stars like Beyonc_, Bruce Springsteen and Lady Gaga.
""He's always felt free to be even more outwardly right wing than I think he normally would have if Hollywood wasn't so overtly left wing. Because he's like a very contrarian personality,"" Amanda told Fox News Digital. ""If Hollywood was just sort of a mix of normal people, he probably wouldn't have felt such a need to be so vocally right wing. But because it was so left, he just went farther to the right.""
""He rolls his eyes with the rest of us when Hollywood comes out and supports a candidate,"" she said.
BILL MAHER PANS MEDIA'S EXCUSES FOR KAMALA HARRIS' DEFEAT: AMERICA JUST ¡¥DIDN¡¦T LIKE' HER
Martin Sheen (L) and John Milius attend the ""Apocalypse Now"" Final Cut 40th Anniversary Special Screening at ArcLight Cinemas Cinerama Dome on August 12, 2019 in Hollywood, California.(Michael Kovac/Getty Images for myCinema)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Amanda Milius served in the first Trump administration in the White House and the State Department, something she said made her father ""very thrilled.""
She also followed in her father's footsteps as the director of the 2020 documentary ""The Plot Against the President.""
Joseph A. Wulfsohn is a media reporter for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to joseph.wulfsohn@fox.com and on Twitter: @JosephWulfsohn."	4044	
foxnews	US scrambles as drones shape the landscape of war: 'the future is here'	https://www.foxnews.com/world/us-scrambles-drones-shape-landscape-war-future-here	"US Army beefs up short reconnaissance program with thousands of new drone systems. (Credit: Red Cat)
FIRST ON FOX:The U.S. Army this week took steps to advance American military capabilities by ordering a potential of 5,880 drone systems small enough to fit in a backpack as the reality of battle shifts in favor of electronic warfare. The contract period is over five years.
Conflicts around the globe, particularly the war in Ukraine, have drastically changed how major nations think about conducting war, explained drone expert and former U.S. Army intelligence and special operations soldier Brett Velicovich to Fox News Digital.
The nearly three-year-long war inUkraine has often depicted scenesnot witnessed since World War II, with children loaded onto trains, veins of trenches scarring the eastern front and renewed concern over how the geopolitics of this conflict could ensnare the entire Western world.
1,000 DAYS OF WAR IN UKRAINE AS ZELENSKYY DOUBLES DOWN ON AERIAL OPTIONS WITH ATACMS, DRONES AND MISSILES
A UJ-22 Airborne (UkrJet) reconnaissance drone prepares to land during a test flight in the Kyiv region of Ukraine on Aug. 2, 2022.(Sergei Supinsky/AFP via Getty Images)
But Ukraine¡¦s scrappy response to its often outnumbered and at times outgunned reality has completely changed how major nationslook at the modern-day battlefield.
""Think about how we fought wars in the past,"" Velicovich, a Fox News contributor, said, pointing to the Vietnam War. ""When you were fighting the enemy over that trench line, you didn't know who was over that hill. You saw a red hat and you fired at it.""
""Now you have the ability to see what's over that hill and maneuver your forces quickly based on that,"" he added.
Areport by The Wall Street Journalthis week said the U.S. Army secured potentially its largest-ever purchase of small surveillance drones from Red Cat Holding¡¦s Utah-based Teal Drones.
This move is a significant step that the U.S. has been eyeing for more than a decade after terrorists first began employing small-drone tactics against the U.S. military in the Middle East.
According to Velicovich, who routinely visits Ukraine to advise on drone technology, the U.S. is trailing its top adversaries like Russia andChina when it comes investment in dronecapabilities.
Ukrainian soldiers look for a drone in a trench at their infantry position in the direction of Kupiansk, Kharkiv Oblast, Ukraine, on March 10.(Diego Herrera Carcedo/Anadolu via Getty Images)
US BRIEFED UKRAINE AHEAD OF PUTIN'S 'EXPERIMENTAL INTERMEDIATE-RANGE BALLISTIC' ATTACK
While the U.S. invested heavily in sophisticated systems like Predator and Reaper drones ¡X which are multimillion-dollar systems designed for intelligence collection and lengthy navigation flight times and possess missile strike capabilities ¡X it is the small, cheaply made unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) which are changing battlefield dynamics.
""These handheld, small UAS systems that you are able to take a drone with a bomb strapped to it [have become] basically an artillery shell now. It's guided artillery shells,"" Velicovich said in reference to Unmanned Aircraft Systems, which include not only the UAV, but also the controller manned from the ground. ""Frankly, it's changing how countries are going to fight wars in the future, and the U.S. has been so slow to get ahead of this.""
It has reportedly taken the U.S. Army some 15 years to start beefing up its Short Range Reconnaissance program with these backpack-sized drones, in part because there was a mental hurdle the Department of Defense needed to push through.
""It's the mentality of senior leaders,"" Velicovich explained. ""These guys are hardened battle infantry guys. They didn't grow up with fancy technology.""
""It really takes a lot of people understanding, changing their thought process. And that's happening now because of the accelerating war in Ukraine, where they've seen how effective drones are,"" he said, noting that drones can no longer be dismissed as gimmicks or toys of the future.
""Now it's real. Now it's here, the future is here,"" Velicovich said. ""We will never fight another war without drones.""
The U.S. Army has acquired the drone systems from Red Cat's Teal Drones in a move to beef up its short-range reconnaissance capabilities as battlefield realities turn to electronic warfare.(Red Cat Holdings)
Teal Drones worked to develop a UAS system based on battlefield needs identified by the U.S. Army, and eventually created the drone that has been dubbed the Black Widow, explained Red Cat CEO Jeff Thompson to Fox News Digital.
BIDEN ADMINISTRATION TO ANNOUNCE $275 MILLION UKRAINE WEAPONS PACKAGE THIS WEEK
This sophisticated system is capable of being operated by a single man, can resist Russian jammers, has strike capabilities, and can fly in GPS-denied zones ¡X an important factor that has been highlighted by the war in Ukraine.
""The Short Range Reconnaissance drone is really going to be able to help the warfighter be more lethal and be a safer soldier,"" Thompson said.
The U.S. Army greenlighted the purchase of the drones. Each soldier kitted out with the Black Widow technology will be given what is called a ""system,"" which includes two drones and one controller ¡X all of which can fit in one's rucksack.
Each system, including the drones and controller, costs the U.S. government about $45,000.
But, as Johnson pointed out, Ukraine¡¦s armed forces are going throughabout 10,000 drones a month¡X which suggests the U.S. will need to acquire far more than at the present level.
A soldier with the 58th Independent Motorized Infantry Brigade of the Ukrainian Army catches a drone while testing it so it can be used nearby as Russia's invasion of Ukraine continues, near Bakhmut, Ukraine, on Nov. 25, 2022.(Reuters/Leah Millis)
The war in Ukraine has shown that affordably made drones, particularly FPV drones, which stands for ""first-person view,"" can be made for as low as $1,000 a drone and frequently strapped with explosives and utilized as kamikaze drones.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
But drone warfare is about significantly more than sheer quantity ¡X it¡¦s a ""power game.""
""This is a cat and mouse game,"" Velicovich said, explaining that drone and counter-drone technology, like jamming systems, are constantly evolving. ""This is playing out at a level that most people don't realize.""
""It's like we were almost peering into the future,"" he continued. ""We are seeing what's happening on the ground now, there in Ukraine, and eventually we'll have to fight a war similar to it, and we just need to be ready.""
Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics, U.S. and World news."	6679	
cnn	Democrats¡¦ flip in California concludes final unresolved US House race	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/04/politics/democrats-flip-california-house-race/index.html	"CNN¡XRepublican Rep. John Duarte has conceded to his Democratic challenger Adam Gray in California___s 13th Congressional District, Duarte campaign spokesman Duane Dichiara confirmed to CNN.The five counties in the district certified their results Tuesday, leaving Gray with a 187-vote lead.The contest was the last unresolved House race in the country, and with Gray___s victory, Republicans won 220 seats to Democrats___ 215. Overall, Democrats gained one seat from their pre-election total.The Republican majority is likely to be even tighter in the early part of next year ___ former GOP Rep. Matt Gaetz of Florida resigned from the House last month and won___t take his seat in the new Congress. Republican Reps. Elise Stefanik of New York and Mike Waltz of Florida are expected to leave the chamber to take positions in the Trump administration.If all three seats are vacant at once, a 217-215 majority would mean that Republicans couldn___t afford to lose a single member on a party-line vote.Gray, a former California state assemblymember, was making his second bid for the Central Valley seat after losing to Duarte by 564 votes two years ago in one of the closest House races in the country. The seat, which Joe Biden carried by 11 points in 2020, was a top target for Democrats this year.This story has been updated with additional developments."	1355	0
cnn	Trump¡¦s DOGE push finds support from some Democrats on Capitol Hill	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/04/politics/trump-doge-democrats-capitol-hill/index.html	"CNN¡XElon Musk___s promise to severely slash government spending has found glimmers of support from some unlikely allies: Democrats.Democratic Rep. Jared Moskowitz joined a Republican-led congressional caucus supporting President-elect Donald Trump___s newly formed Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE, co-led by Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy. Democratic Rep. Ro Khanna has said hewill work with Muskon certain issues, and Vermont independent Sen. Bernie Sanders recentlypostedon X that ___Elon Musk is right.___Moskowitz wants to work on making the Secret Service and FEMA independent federal agencies that report directly to the White House, an idea that has bipartisan support, while Sanders and Khanna want to slash the Pentagon budget, citing failed audits.Efforts to dismantle federal bureaucracy and cut wasteful spending at the direction of Trump could lead to rare moments of unlikely alliances on Capitol Hill in the new year, though there are concerns among some members that the push to overhaul government could devolve into reflexive partisanship.Moskowitz may not be the only Democrat who joins the DOGE caucus, sources told CNN. The DOGE caucus is emerging as a viable option for Democrats, presenting an opportunity for lawmakers to participate in a forum without having to take votes on official positions.Democrats are signaling that they want to be part of the conversation on overhauling government while also serving as a check on Republicans if they try to use their power in Congress and the White House to make cuts to programs like Medicare or Social Security.The new subcommittee on the House Oversight panel specifically tasked to work with DOGE and led by Trump ally GOP Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, however, is a different story.___I don___t want to be a part of anything Marjorie might be in charge of,___ Moskowitz, who has a history of sparring with Greene, told CNN.As Democrats look to find instances where they can work across the aisle to cut government spending, there is broader skepticism about the overall effort, even from Republican appropriators who support the underlying principles of DOGE, but caution that arbitrary cuts without a full understanding of the functions of governmental programs are not the answer, a source familiar with the conversations told CNN.The Senate has launched a companion DOGE caucus, and House Speaker Mike Johnson is hosting joint meetings with Musk and Ramaswamy on Thursday with lawmakers from both chambers, in an effort to kickstart the work.Trump announced last month that Musk and Ramaswamy would lead the newly formed department.It was not immediately clearwhen Trump made the announcement how the department ___ which he said would ___provide advice and guidance from outside of Government___ ___ would operate.Republican Sen. Joni Ernst, who is leading the Senate DOGE caucus, said Thursday___s meetings will be ___a great collaboration I think to find out where we want to go as caucuses and to mesh that or nest that with the goals of the administration.___Sanders said he wouldn___t join the caucus, but he said Musk makes a good point on the Defense Department specifically.___I think there___s massive amounts of waste ___. Let___s go after that,___ he said. ___So I will work with them on the specific areas where we can make some positive change.___GOP Sen. Cynthia Lummis told CNN, ___I think that this commission that is chaired by Vivek Ramaswamy and Elon Musk is the most exciting thing that has happened in government in decades.______This is going to be, in my opinion, the true masterpiece of Trump 47,___ she said.Oversight Committee Democrats in search of a new leader ___ since Rep. Jamie Raskin is now vying to be the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee ___ have not started staffing up or planning how to handle Greene___s subcommittee, a source told CNN, and are waiting to see how their committee___s leadership race plays out before deciding who will serve on it.CNN___s Lauren Fox, Ted Barrett and Danya Gainor contributed to this report."	4053	0
cnn	Trump¡¦s pick for DEA administrator withdraws from consideration	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/03/politics/chad-chronister-trump-dea-withdraws/index.html	"CNN¡XChad Chronister, a Florida sheriff, has withdrawn from consideration as President-electDonald Trump¡¦s pick to lead the Drug Enforcement Administration, he announced Tuesday.¡§Over the past several days, as the gravity of this very important responsibility set in, I¡¦ve concluded that I must respectfully withdraw from consideration,¡¨ Chronister, the sheriff of Hillsborough County, posted on X.¡§There is more work to be done for the citizens of Hillsborough County and a lot of initiatives I am committed to fulfilling. I sincerely appreciate the nomination, outpouring of support by the American people, and look forward to continuing my service as Sheriff of Hillsborough County,¡¨ he added.The Trump transition team declined to comment.Trump¡¦s choice of Chronister had received backlash from the MAGA corner of the Republican Party, some of whom took to social media to lambast the sheriff.Republican Rep. Thomas Massie of Kentucky criticized Trump¡¦s selection in apost on Xon Sunday, saying the sheriff ¡§should be disqualified¡¨ over his enforcement of Covid-19 protocols. Reacting to Chronister¡¦s withdrawal Tuesday, Massie said in aseparate postthat he was ¡§glad to see him withdraw from consideration.¡¨There was also a belief among some allies of the president-elect that Chronister was not a true Republican, let alone a Trump loyalist. It is not clear whether this pushback to his selection led to him withdrawing his name.Chronister is the second of Trump¡¦s picks to withdraw from being considered for a post in the next administration.Former Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz announcedlast month that he¡¦d no longer seek the position of attorney general as the conservative firebrand faced an uphill battle to be confirmed in the Senate. Trump replaced him with a fellow Floridian, formerstate Attorney General Pam Bondi, who is from Tampa.Trump announced Chronister as his pick Saturday, writing in asocial media post: ¡§As DEA Administrator, Chad will work with our great Attorney General, Pam Bondi, to secure the Border, stop the flow of Fentanyl, and other Illegal Drugs, across the Southern Border, and SAVE LIVES.¡¨Chronister has served as the sheriff for Hillsborough County ¡X which includes the city of Tampa ¡X since 2017, when he was appointed to the post by then-Gov. Rick Scott, according to his office¡¦swebsite.He has served with the sheriff¡¦s office for 32 years and has been reelected twice since 2017 to serve as the county¡¦s top law enforcement officer.Chronister¡¦s wife, Nicole DeBartolo, is the daughter of former San Francisco 49ers owner Edward DeBartolo Jr. During his first term,Trump granted Chronister¡¦s father-in-law a presidential pardonafter he pleaded guilty in 1998 to failing to report a felony in a bribery case, which led to former Louisiana Gov. Edwin W. Edwards¡¦federal prison sentence.While he didn¡¦t serve jail time, Edward DeBartolo Jr. agreed to pay up to $1 million in fines and relinquished ownership of the NFL team to his sister.This story has been updated with additional details.CNN¡¦s Kristen Holmes, Steve Contorno and Maegan Vazquez contributed to this report."	3107	0
cnn	Judge in Hunter Biden¡¦s tax case blasts Joe Biden for ¡¥rewriting history¡¦ with son¡¦s pardon	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/03/politics/hunter-biden-judge-blasts-joe-biden/index.html	"CNN¡XThe federal judge who oversaw Hunter Biden___s tax case blasted PresidentJoe Bidenfor trying to ___rewrite history___ in his justification forpardoning his son.District Judge Mark Scarsi wrote in a five-page order Tuesday that some of the ___representations contained___ in the president___s Sunday statement announcing the pardon ___stand in tension with the case record.___ Scarsi specifically took issue with Biden___s rationale that his son___s tax problems were all caused by his struggle with alcohol and drug addiction.___The Constitution provides the President with broad authority to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States ___ but nowhere does the Constitution give the President the authority to rewrite history,___ Scarsi wrote.Hunter Bidenpleaded guiltyin September to nine tax offenses, stemming from $1.4 million in taxes that he didn___t pay. He was alsoconvicted by a juryin June of illegally buying and possessing a gun as a drug user. The president___s pardon explicitly granted clemency for the tax and gun offenses from Hunter Biden___s existing cases, plus any potential federal crimes he may have committed ___from January 1, 2014 through December 1, 2024.___President Joe Biden and his son Hunter Biden walk in downtown Nantucket Massachusetts, on November 29, 2024.Jose Luis Magana/APRelated articleDemocrats left fuming over Biden___s decision to pardon his son ___ after he repeatedly said he wouldn___tIn thepardon announcementSunday night, Joe Biden claimed his son was one of many Americans ___who were late paying their taxes because of serious addictions.___ But, as the judge pointed out, as part of Hunter Biden___s guilty plea, he admitted to not paying his tax debts even after regaining his sobriety, and even though he had the funds to pay.The judge also rebuked the president for claiming his son was ___singled out___ for prosecution because of political reasons. Earlier this year, Scarsi rejected this exact argument from Hunter Biden, who wanted the indictment tossed on those grounds. (The judge in Hunter Biden___s gun case also rejected the selective-prosecution theory.)Joe Biden___s announcement claimed ___no reasonable person___ could conclude this wasn___t a politically motivated prosecution. But Scarsi noted plenty of Justice Department officials, including the attorney general, oversaw the case ___ and therefore, ___in the President___s estimation, this legion of federal civil servants ___ are unreasonable people.___Scarsi, who is a respected and no-nonsense jurist, was appointed by Donald Trump and confirmed by the Senate in a bipartisan vote in 2020.He said he will formally terminate the proceedings in the tax case once he is provided with an authorized copy of the pardon paperwork.Meanwhile, the judge who oversaw Hunter Biden___s gun case said in an order Tuesday that ___all proceedings in this case are hereby terminated.___Hunter Biden___s attorneys had asked the judge, Maryellen Noreika, to formally dismiss the charges, instead of simply terminating or shutting down future proceedings.Special counsel David Weiss, who brought the two federal cases, argued ___termination___ instead of ___dismissal___ was the appropriate way to end the case, saying that___s how cases for other pardoned defendants were handled. Prosecutors in Weiss___ office also wanted the indictments to survive as originally filed, instead of being formally dismissed."	3445	-1
cnn	"Musk and Ramaswamy suggest ending time changes, reviving an effort that has failed in the past"	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/03/politics/elon-musk-vivek-ramaswamy-time-changes-doge/index.html	"WashingtonCNN¡XElon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy are suggesting the country stop its biannual ritual of falling back and springing forward ___ advocating a permanent end to time changes in a move that has garnered broad support in the past.In a series of posts on X last week, both entrepreneurs called for the US to stop changing its clocks twice a year, with Musk declaring Americans want their country to ___abolish the annoying time changes!___ and Ramaswamy describing the century-old practice as ___inefficient & easy to change.___It___s unclear how seriously the two men are taking this push and whether they intend to make stopping time changes a priority for their newly formed Department of Government Efficiency, which President-elect Donald Trump has tasked with overhauling how the government operates and identifying and making recommendations to eliminate processes or programs deemed redundant.While other objectives floated by Musk and Ramaswamy for their department to tackle have been criticized as unwieldy or not possible, the semi-annual clock change is a tradition that has lost its appeal to many voters, polls have shown.And the change, if enacted, would be the most sweepingly impactful recommendation floated by Musk and Ramaswamy yet, affecting how hundreds of millions of people start and end their days. It___s also an idea that some key members of Trump___s incoming administration and the Republican Senate caucus have vocally supported for years.But some experts say the suggestion of sweeping changes resulting from a possible elimination of clock changes is overblown.___I think this is really an argument between morning people and nighttime people,___ said Dr. Jadrian Wooten, a collegiate associate professor at Virginia Tech___s Department of Economics who has studied the risk and benefits of Daylight Saving Time.The benefits espoused by people who prefer more light in the morning could inversely be true for the same as those who prefer more light later in the afternoon. For each study that shows a positive one way, another study can show one for the other.There are three different camps in the debate. One argues for leaving the time changes as they currently are, with most of the country changing their clocks forward in March and back in November. This approach attempts to balance the amount of sunlight people receive on any given day and strikes a compromise between those who prefer more sunlight in the morning and those who prefer more in the evening; each group gets their preference at different points in the year. It___s the Goldilocks solution.The second advocates for a permanent standard time, keeping the clocks as they are from November to March year-round. This would lead to parts of the country experiencing earlier sunrises and sunsets than they usually do during those five months ___ leaving more light in the morning and less in the evening. This approach is supported by medical groups and professionals who say it most closely aligns with the body___s natural circadian rhythm.___If you get too much light too late in the evening, it disrupts your sleep, and we are essentially creating a months-long environment in which we are actually receiving light at a time that is later in the day than is optimal for our health,___ said Dr. Adam Spira, a professor at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health who studies the benefits of healthy sleep habits.___We___re already a sleep-deprived society,___ Spira said, ___and we___re making it harder for people to fall asleep.___This approach also resonates with parents who don___t want their children waiting for the school bus under a dark morning sky.___It___s kids getting ready to go to school,___ said Wooten, the Virginia Tech economist. ___It___s kids getting on the bus. You know, it___s really dangerous to put kids out waiting for the bus in the morning when it___s really dark outside, and so if you have that extra time in the morning, it___s a safer morning for most people, right?___The third advocates for a permanent Daylight Saving Time. The sun would rise and set later, giving people less daylight in the morning and more in the evening. This approach is often supported by retail, business and restaurant groups and organizations that want people to have enough daylight left after work or school to be out and about and participating in the economy, and by those who say more daylight in the evening could reduce crime.The reasons for supporting any side in this debate are as disparate as each individual___s own personal life experiences; some parents may prefer that their children not wait for the bus during a dark morning, while other parents may prefer there be some daylight while they watch their kids practice sports after school.While Musk and Ramaswamy both said they support ending the clock changes, it___s not clear whether they are proposing the country adopt permanent Daylight Saving Time or permanent standard time. Musk seemed to signal support for both conflicting ideas in his posts to X last week.___Looks like the people want to abolish the annoying time changes!___ he wrote in response to an X user who made poll that showed wide support for abolishing Daylight Saving Time.Hours later, he responded with an enthusiastic ___Yes!___ when Florida Sen. Rick Scott touted the Sunshine Protection Act, legislation he supports which would ___lock the clock___ and make Daylight Saving Time the standard. That post, which said Daylight Saving Time ___needs to go,___ was eventually deleted because it contained what Scott___s office described as a typographical error.Scott, whose unsuccessful bid for Senate leadership was supported by Musk and who now sits on the DOGE Senate caucus, signed a state version of that bill into law when he was governor of Florida in 2018.___Floridians are sick of changing their clocks because we all want more sunshine,___ Scott said in an October statement touting the bill. ___It___s time for Congress to act, pass the Sunshine Protection Act and lock the clock.___Previous attempts to do so have faltered. Daylight Saving Time was first introduced during World War I to assist with the nation___s industrial productivity during the Great War ___ not, as popular rumors frequently suggest, to give farmers more day time during harvest.Daylight Saving Time was kept permanent during most of World War II, also for reasons to do with industry and energy. During the gas crisis in the 1970s, the country once again tried making Daylight Saving Time permanent, only for public approval to plummet after complaints of children being hit by cars while waiting for the bus at night.States aren___t required to change their clocks; Hawaii, most of Arizona and some US territories in the Pacific and Caribbean do not observe Daylight Saving Time. In 2022, the US Senate passed legislation making Daylight Saving Time permanent, but the House failed to vote on it. And last year, a bipartisan group of senators reintroduced legislation that would make a switch to daylight saving permanent. Now, with the possible support of one of the richest men in the world, the country may prepare to make another change ___ one way or the other.Musk and Ramaswamy are expected to address Republican House and Senate members on Thursday afternoon, with the meeting expected to center on the newly formed efficiency department."	7404	0
cnn	"Kash Patel, Trump¡¦s pick to lead FBI, has been targeted in an Iranian hack, sources say"	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/03/politics/kash-patel-targeted-iran-hack/index.html	"CNN¡XKash Patel, President-electDonald Trump___spick to run the FBI, was recently informed by the bureau that he had been targeted as part of an Iranian hack, two sources familiar with the matter told CNN.Hackers are believed to have accessed at least some of Patel___s communications, according to one of the sources.Trump transition spokesman Alex Pfeiffer declined to comment specifically on the hack in a statement to CNN.___Kash Patel was a key part of the first Trump administration___s efforts against the terrorist Iranian regime and will implement President Trump___s policies to protect America from adversaries as the FBI Director,___ Pfeiffer said in the statement.Members of Trump___s inner circle have been targeted by foreign hackers in recent months. Last month, the FBI informed Todd Blanche, one of Trump___s lead attorneys and now his pick to be deputy attorney general, that his cellphone was tapped by Chinese hackers, three sources familiar with the matter previously told CNN. The Chinese government has denied US allegations that it is behind that hack.Blanche was the second Trump attorney believed to be targeted by foreign hackers.CNN reported in Augustthat attorney Lindsey Halligan was targeted as part of a separate Iranian hacking effort.Donald Trump Jr. has also said he was notified by the FBI that he was ___one of the top targets___ of Iran.Iran has for several years targeted members of Trump___s first administration and more recently sent information they stole from his presidential campaign to people who were affiliated with President Joe Biden___s campaign this summer.In June, Iranian hackers breached the email account of longtime Trump ally Roger Stone and used the account to try to break into a senior Trump campaign official___s email, investigators have said.The Iranian government has denied US allegations that it was trying to meddle in the November election.This story has been updated with additional details."	1962	0
cnn	Biden¡¦s pardon of his son makes presidential history	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/01/politics/joe-biden-presidential-history-pardon/index.html	"A version of this story appears in CNN___s What Matters newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for freehere.CNN¡XPresident Joe Biden made history Sunday when hegranted a pardon to his son Hunter Bidenfor criminal convictions on gun and tax charges.The power to grant pardons for federal crimes is uniquely bestowed by the Constitution on only the US president: ______ he shall have Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offences against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment.___Presidents have doled out pardons to friends and donors, to political allies, and to make political points, but no president until Biden has pardoned his son.In a statement, Biden argued his son___s criminal cases ___came about only after several of my political opponents in Congress instigated them to attack me and oppose my election.___Hunter Biden departs from federal court, Tuesday, June 4, 2024, in Wilmington, Del. (AP Photo/Matt Slocum)Matt Slocum/AP/FileRelated articlePresident Biden pardons his son Hunter BidenHe argued Hunter Biden faced prosecution ___ in particular for the sole charge of lying on a form required to buy a handgun ___ only because he was the president___s son.Certainly Republicans have long tried to tie Hunter Biden___s lucrative business career to his father. And don___t forget, it was then-President Donald Trump___sattempt to get Ukraineto investigate Hunter Biden___s ties to a natural gas company that led to his first impeachment.Hunter Biden___s personal struggle with addiction and his business career, built on his father___s name, have clearly been political liabilities for Joe Biden. The federal investigation into Hunter Biden has been a yearslong event; it began in 2018 during the Trump presidency and continued throughout Joe Biden___s administration. With the pardon, Biden broke a clear public promise not to interfere with the justice system on his son___s behalf, something that will now stain his presidential legacy.Only two other presidents have pardoned family members, according to Alexis Coe, author of ___You Never Forget Your First: A Biography of George Washington._____¡ì Bill Clintonpardoned his half-brother Rogerfor drug charges.__¡ì Trumppardoned his son-in-law___s father, Charles Kushner, who had been convicted of witness tampering, tax evasion and illegal campaign contributions. Kushner isnow in lineto be US ambassador to France.Coewrote for CNN in 2023about the long list of presidential sons, in particular, causing problems for their fathers. She told me the framers did not anticipate the pardon power being used for close relations.President Joe Biden, wearing a Team USA jacket and walking with his son Hunter Biden, heads toward Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, July 26, 2024.Susan Walsh/APanalysisJoe Biden___s pardon reversal reflects family loyalty over legacy___I can guarantee you that when the framers debated the presidential pardon at the Constitutional Convention, a future in which it would be used as a get-out-of-jail-free card for the first family was not among their concerns,___ she said after Biden pardoned his son. ___It is supposed to inspire unity and justice,___ a last resort for people who have been failed by the system. Now, the risk is a normalization of pardons as a sort of perk of access.Interestingly, the family member pardon was not the most controversial for either Clinton or Trump.Clinton___s pardon of thefugitive financierMarc Rich was more shocking than his pardon of his half-brother.Trump pardoned a long list of political allies, including his former campaign manager Paul Manafort and his former aide Steve Bannon, who was facing trial for defrauding investors in a private border wall. Bannon later was convicted andserved time in jailon separate federal charges related to his refusal to comply with a congressional subpoena. He alsofaces state chargesrelated to the alleged private border wall scheme.Now the debate over presidents and justice will pivot from the fact that Trump___s election erased many of his legal problems to Biden___s decision to erase his own son___s legal woes after Democrats___ devastating loss. Trump___s sentencing on felony counts in New Yorkhas been delayed indefinitely, and federal charges for trying to overthrow the 2020 election and mishandling classified datahave been dropped.Republicans have long argued that there___s a two-tiered system of justice and they are unfairly targeted, although whenCNN compiled a listof recent federal prosecutions, there was no evidence that Republican federal lawmakers face criminal investigation at higher rates.In issuing the pardon for his son, Biden said Americans should still believe in the justice system. But in the case of his son, he said, ___I also believe raw politics has infected this process and it led to a miscarriage of justice.___That___s a severe indictment of the justice system at a time when Trump is promising to significantly change things, includingputting loyalists in chargeof the Department of Justice and the FBI. Trump, notably, seriously considered whether he could issue himselfhis own pardonduring his first term in the White House.President Joe Biden speaks on the South Lawn of the White House on December 1, in Washington, DC.Nathan Posner/Anadolu/Getty ImagesanalysisBiden___s pardon of his son pours fuel on Trump___s claims of politicized justiceThere is a process by which pardons are supposed to be petitioned for, reviewed and granted, which is funneled through aspecial office in the Department of Justice.The office lists various criteria that normal people should meet before requesting a pardon, including good post-conviction behavior, acceptance of responsibility, the need for relief and recommendations from officials, according to a review of pardon authority by theCongressional Research Service.Biden also used his pardon power much more broadly, to wipe awaysimple marijuana convictionson federal lands and in Washington, DC, in 2022. That mass pardon was conducted in the weeks before the 2022 midterm election. The singular pardon Sunday occurred in the lame-duck period after Democrats lost the White House in November___s election but while Biden is still president. It___s in these final weeks in office that presidents frequently use their pardon power in the most controversial ways."	6371	0
cnn	Tariff-happy presidents are not what the Constitution envisioned	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/27/politics/presidents-tariffs-constitution-what-matters/index.html	"A version of this story appeared in CNN___s What Matters newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for freehere.CNN¡XAnyone who had any doubt that Donald Trump___s love of tariffs is true should take note of his new promise, for Day 1 of his presidency, toslap products imported from Canada and Mexicowith 25% taxes.Trump said the new taxes on those foreign goods, along with a 10% hike in tariffs on products from China, would remain in place ___until such time as Drugs, in particular Fentanyl, and all Illegal Aliens stop this Invasion of our Country!___What could get more expensiveThe US imports gas from Canada, and it___sreliant on Mexico for produce. Prices could rise at the pump and the grocery store, along with many other places, if the US gets involved in a trade war to its north and south.A forklift transfers a shipping container for export at a port in Lianyungang, Jiangsu province May 5, 2014. China's overall trade is likely to gain momentum after May when high base effects fade off and data more accurately reflects the underlying picture, the commerce ministry said in a report on its website. Picture taken May 5, 2014. REUTERS/China Daily (CHINA - Tags: BUSINESS POLITICS) CHINA OUT. NO COMMERCIAL OR EDITORIAL SALES IN CHINAChina Daily/ReutersRelated article3 charts that help explain how Trump___s tariffs would workAfter an election where many voters thought they were voting for cheaper goods, the future president is essentially promising to raise prices on things like groceries, electronics and automobiles and potentially kick off a trade war with two of the country___s closest trading partners.The tariffs might also violate the very trade agreementTrump negotiated with Mexico and Canadaduring his first term.Are these new threats a bargaining tactic meant to bring the countries to the table on immigration, or are they real promises? We shall see in time. Meanwhile, it___s worth looking at why Trump can impose these tariffs without input from Congress.This is not what the Constitution envisionedAfter all, the Constitution specifically gives Congress, not the president, the power to ___regulate Commerce with foreign Nations.___How does Trump have the power to impose tariffs without any input from Congress? It___s pretty much the opposite of what___s in the Constitution, and it didn___t happen right away.For insight, I talked to Doug Irwin, an economics professor at Dartmouth College and the author of multiple books about tariffs and trade policy, including ___Trade Policy Disaster: Lessons from the 1930s.___Smoot-Hawley tariffs exacerbated the Great DepressionIn the years after World War I, Congress had embraced isolationism and imposed tariffs on imports into the US as a way to protect US companies and workers from competition. As the Great Depression was beginning, Congress went back to this tool and imposed a law named for then-Sen. Reed Smoot of Utah and then-Rep. Willis Hawley of Oregon. The additional across-the-board tariffs in theSmoot-Hawley Actkicked off a trade war that exacerbated the Great Depression.After Franklin D. Roosevelt took office along with a Democratic majority, lawmakers corrected in the other direction. In 1934, they passed theReciprocal Trade Agreements Act, which gave the president power to lower import duties for countries with which the US had trade agreements.In the 1960s, presidents got power from Congress to impose tariffs for national security reasons, something Trump made use of during his first term when dealing with China, Europe, Canada and Mexico.Irwin said it could take some time for Trump___s Commerce Department to conduct that investigation and determine there is a national security threat from Canada and Mexico, but it___s also possible Trump could try to sidestep such a report.In the 1970s, Congress gave the president new trade promotion authority power to negotiate trade agreements and then have Congress ratify them without amendment. It___s something lawmakers have granted at key moments in the years since,including in 2015, when a much more free trade-oriented GOP gave then-President Barack Obama authority to negotiate with a group of countries in the Pacific region.Trump later killed that deal, but heused the fast-track authorityto negotiate the US-Mexico-Canada Agreement he may now violate with new tariffs.Trump___s tariffsFor tariffs, Trump has instead focused on that1962 law, which requires a report from his administration justifying tariffs as a national security matter but does not require a vote by Congress. Notably, President Joe Biden maintained Trump___s first-term tariffs on China and evenincreased some.Workers stand in front of coils of steel wire at a depot on the outskirts of Shanghai on March 26, 2018.Qilai Shen/Bloomberg/Getty Images/File___Congress, basically starting in the 1930s, almost a century ago, has started giving away a lot of its tariff authority,___ Irwin said. ___And so now we___re in a situation where the president is really sort of the main driver on trade policy, and Congress, even though the Constitution gives it most of the authority, is in the back seat.___If all of this sounds a little familiar, that___s because Trumpultimately lifted tariffs he imposed on steel and aluminumfrom Canada and Mexico in 2019, on the way to finalizing that trade agreement.___We know what works___Trump___s aides see the first administration___s tactics as a model for Trump___s second administration, according to CNN___s Priscilla Alvarez, who reports these threats are part of an effort to resurrect an old approach and do it early on.___We know what works,___ a Trump transition official told Alvarez.Alvarez adds there is belief among those in his orbit that the threats worked the first time in getting neighboring countries to comply on migration. Mexico___s President Claudia Sheinbaum responded to Trump___s tariff threat with a warning about reciprocal tariffs and said ___neither threats nor tariffs will solve the issue of migration or drug consumption.___"	6034	0
cnn	7 charts and maps show where Harris underperformed and lost the election	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/27/politics/election-voters-harris-what-matters-dg/index.html	"A version of this story appeared in CNN___s What Matters newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for freehere.CNN¡XTurnout for thepresidential electionis not yet final, but it___s clear that fewer people votedin 2024 compared with 2020.Comparing the two elections, Donald Trump added about 2.8 million votes to his total in his 2024 victory. Vice President Kamala Harris, on the other hand, underperformed by about 6.8 million votes compared with Joe Biden in 2020, according to CNN election results as of November 25.Here are seven charts and maps that explain how the US popular vote, turnout in individual states and ultimately turnout in the seven key battleground states ___ where electoral votes were up for grabs ___ tell the story of Harris___ loss.This year will end up being one of just two elections in the 21st century in which the Republican presidential candidate got more votes than the Democratic candidate. It is also one of only two times in the 21st century that the number of votes cast dropped compared with the previous presidential election. The other came in 2012, when about 2.2 million fewer votes were cast than in 2008.Another way to look at Trump___s narrow edge in the popular vote is that he got the vote of about a third of the citizen voting-age population. A slightly smaller portion backed Harris. Another third did not vote at all.While Democrats___ portion of the vote has been up and down in recent elections, Trump has won more votesin each of the elections in which he was a candidate. Viewed in raw numbers, he got about 63 million votes in 2016, 74 million in 2020 and nearly77 million in 2024.The difference for Democrats was that turnout surged in 2020, the pandemic election.Harris got fewer votes than Biden in 45 of the 50 states and Washington, DC. While votes are still being added to the totals in some states, changes at this point would be marginal.Most of Harris___ drop-off came in populous states like California, New York and Florida, where a dip in support for Harris did not affect the Electoral College vote tally. Trump boosted his overall count in those population centers as well, padding his count by hundreds of thousands of votes in Texas, Florida and New York and to a lesser extent in traditional Democratic strongholds like New Jersey and Massachusetts.Zooming in on the hotly contested battleground states where the election was much closer, Harris and Trump both gained votes compared with 2020 in Wisconsin, Georgia, North Carolina and Nevada. The population has also grown in all of those states in the past four years.Arizona___s population has also grown, though the total number of votes cast in the state held about even. Harris got fewer votes there compared with Biden in 2020, and Trump carried it with his largest margin of victory across the seven battlegrounds.Pennsylvania and Michigan are battleground states where the population has not grown in the past four years and where Harris got fewer votes in 2024 than Biden got in 2020.Democrats lamenting the results have pointed out that the election was decided by about 230,000 votesin Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan, battleground states won narrowly by Trump. But Harris lost votes compared with Biden across the country.Harris___ losses compared with Biden were biggest in Southern California, southern Florida and in the Northeast. The few places where Harris got more votes than Biden were largelyconcentrated in those seven battleground states, in particular Georgia and North Carolina, but it wasn___t enough to overcome Trump___s gains. The only state where Harris gained votes on Biden___s 2020 performance, that was not also a battleground state, was Utah.Trump made gainsacross the seven battleground states in particular, but they weren___t limited to places with higher turnout. Trump also saw increases in support in a range of counties where fewer votes were cast overall.In Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, even in many counties where more people voted in 2024, Harris got fewer votes than Biden in 2020, although there were pockets in the swing states where Harris got more votes than Biden.Perhaps it shouldn___t be surprising that in the states where the campaign was the most hotly contested, more people voted in 2024, whereas in states where one side or the other seemed more likely to win, turnout generallydropped."	4385	0
cnn	Trump¡¦s trade threats put the world on a precipice and may say a lot about his second term	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/27/politics/trump-trade-threat-second-term-analysis/index.html	"CNN¡XGlobal chaos delivered via social media is back.Between 2017 and 2021, Donald Trump had the world on a precipice, bracing for his next move, gaming out whether his bluster was a bluff, an overture to a deal or a break with history, as he sowed mayhem to push adversaries off balance.President-elect Donald Trump attends the America First Policy Institute gala at Mar-A-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, on November 14.Carlos Barria/ReutersRelated articleTrump tries to force other countries to negotiating table on immigration and trade with promise to hike tariffsThose days are here again, nearly eight weeks before his second term begins.The president-elect¡¦sonline threatsMonday of new trade wars with Canada, Mexico and China turned the United States back into an agent of instability, which can pitch a foreign friend or foe into a crisis in an instant.Trump said America¡¦s two Western Hemisphere neighbors would be punished if they didn¡¦t stop the flow of undocumented migration and fentanyl across their borders. And he demanded China stop shipments of the drug as well.His first major global brouhaha since winning reelection posed the following questions that will help define the character of his second term.Is Trump serious about massive tariff hikes that could increase prices for US consumers as soon as he begins a second presidency, which was won partly because voters were so frustrated with inflation and costs of housing and groceries?Or is the president-elect indulging his view that life and politics is one big real estate deal? And is he setting out an extreme position to create leverage for agreements that might be modest but polish his dealmaker¡¦s brand?There¡¦s a third possibility ¡X that Trump feels liberated by his election victory and is determined to drive his America First project further than a first term in which his most volatile instincts were often restrained by establishment aides.Trump believes he has mandate for huge changeMany of Trump¡¦s voters deeply disdain the political, economic, trading and diplomatic systems that they believe have hurt them financially and serve US and global elites. They want their MAGA hero to tear them down, without much idea what would replace them.Trucks wait on a queue to cross to the US next to the border wall at the Otay commercial crossing port in Tijuana, Baja California state, Mexico on November 26, 2024. President-elect Trump said Monday he would impose a 25 percent tariff on all imports from Mexico and Canada as one of his first actions upon becoming US president in January.Guillermo Arias/AFP/Getty ImagesRelated articleTariff-happy presidents are not what the Constitution envisionedTrump could, therefore, simply be creating headlines to show supporters that he¡¦s already fighting for their interests. Or he could have something more sweeping in mind. The second path could take America and the world into risky territory. The idea that he might go for broke could drag the US into trade wars that wreck the economy and spark dangerous standoffs in a world that is far more volatile since he left office four years ago.¡§There are plenty of examples (of) Trump¡¦s verbal threats forcing and compelling action on the part of other parties, particularly when it comes to foreign countries,¡¨ Pete Seat, a former spokesman in President George W. Bush¡¦s White House, said on ¡§CNN News Central¡¨ on Tuesday. ¡§The real question is what will happen in these next two months?¡¨ If all three nations make meaningful moves, Seat said, ¡§Trump may back off on this. Otherwise, we¡¦re all going to see price increases.¡¨The issue of whether Trump is bluffing or is planning to go all in with a revolutionary presidency is not confined to trade.He has ambitious plans to gut the federal government with a new effort co-chaired by Elon Musk. But going all in would cause huge political and economic disruption that might backfire. Similarly, Trump vowed a mass deportation of up to 10 million undocumented migrants. But such an operation that would cost billions of dollars could buckle the agricultural sector and would also come with high political costs. This equation is mirrored abroad. Some in the West fear Trump will pull the US out of NATO or refuse to defend an alliance member attacked by Russia. Would the president-elect really blow apart the most successful military alliance in history ¡X or is he just trying to wring more defense spending from some of Europe¡¦s lagging powers?In other words, does Trump have in mind a presidency driven by spectacle and brinkmanship that succeeds, like his first, in delivering mostly incremental change? Or is he really, as some of his fans want, trying to tear everything down?Video Ad FeedbackEnten explains how Americans view tariffs01:33- Source:CNNA quick startTrump¡¦s sudden warning on Monday of 25% tariffs on Canadian and Mexican imports, with a further 10% hike above existing tariffs on Chinese goods, was the latest sign that the president-elect plans to quickly throw his muscle around.It caused a scramble in Ottawa, and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau jumped on the phone with Trump for what he insisted was a ¡§good call.¡¨ Within hours, Trump had got the attention of new Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum, as she warned of like-for-like retaliation of Trump tariffs after January 20.The president-elect¡¦s gambit has created an immediate yard stick to judge whether his second presidency will be an attempt to push through far deeper disruption.There¡¦s no guarantee that Canada, Mexico and China will back down immediately.Still, deaths from overdoses of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids are falling. And Trump¡¦s promises to impose hardline immigration policies are likely to deter many migrants from approaching the US southern border. Therefore, Trump could create an illusion of change to cover a decision to back down if he needs to.Trump¡¦s trade war rhetoric is a reminder that in his worldview, the United States has few friends ¡X only adversaries against whom it can choose to win or lose. According to this view, it¡¦s fine for a big powerful country like the US to use its natural advantages to push around smaller neighbors, even if they are allies.But Trump must also size up his opponents both north and south of the border.Trudeau is politically weakened, and his Liberals are in danger of losing a general election due next year to Conservative Party leader Pierre Poilievre. The prime minister therefore has a huge incentive to avoid a trade war that could cause havoc in the Canadian economy. Both Canada and Mexico are dependent on their trade with the United States because of their geographical realities and may have no choice but to make concessions. But Sheinbaum is new in office, has plenty of political capital and may be keen to stand up to perceived bullying by a new US president.The case of China is distinct from Trump¡¦s threats to Canada and Mexico. The president-elect significantly stiffened policy toward America¡¦s new superpower rival in his first term. A trade war led to a deal, which again Trump hailed, but that largely dissolved during the pandemic and after China declined to buy the vast quantities of agricultural goods that the then-president said it would.Trade is only one source of friction between Washington and Beijing, and many of Trump¡¦s team ¡X including Sen. Marco Rubio, his pick for secretary of state ¡X believe that China poses an existential security and economic threat to the United States. This then could be the first salvo in a large and more intense period of confrontation across the Pacific rather  than merely a ruse to draw President Xi Jinping to the table.Other tensions are inevitableTrump¡¦s early turn against his neighbors will put other allies on notice ¡X especially in Europe, where leaders are bracing for their own trade showdown with Trump, as well as dealing with tensions over how to end the war in Ukraine.Initial reaction to Trump¡¦s broadside against Canada and Mexico suggests that many observers see his outburst as a negotiating tactic. A Trump transition officialtold CNNon Tuesday, ¡§We know what works.¡¨ In his first term, Trump used the threat of a trade war to force Canada and Mexico to the table to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement. The new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement was touted by Trump as a triumph ¡X but it didn¡¦t fundamentally reshape the global economy or significantly improve a hollowed-out US industrial base that Trump pledged to revive in his 2016 and 2024 campaigns.It¡¦s a measure of his desire to foment discord that Trump is effectively threatening to tear up one of his own first-term achievements.¡§What Donald Trump is proposing as an alpha-disrupter is to disrupt the largest trade market in the world,¡¨ Virginia Rep. Gerry Connolly, a Democrat, told CNN on Tuesday.Is he serious?Thanks to Trump¡¦s early setting of expectations, the world will soon find out."	8924	0
cnn	How these older voters who backed Harris are engaging in ¡¥quiet resistance¡¦	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/26/politics/pennsylvania-older-voters-trump-resistance/index.html	"Bethlehem, PennsylvaniaCNN¡XPat Levin, 95 years young, is wrestling daily with something new and depressing.¡§It¡¦s left me very afraid,¡¨ she said of the 2024 election. ¡§Afraid of the future. Afraid of everything.¡¨That Donald Trump will be president in her twilight is by far the biggest slice of Levin¡¦s post-election funk. But there¡¦s more: Democratic Sen. Bob Casey was defeated, as was her Democratic congresswoman, Rep. Susan Wild.Her first memories of politics are of Franklin Roosevelt, and Levin has lived through Vietnam, Watergate, the September 11 attacks and more. And yet this feels more significant, more threatening.¡§I want to fight,¡¨ Levin said in an interview last week. ¡§I don¡¦t want to fight. I think I have to. Because I think there¡¦s no such thing as staying neutral. I think once you stay neutral, it¡¦s the oppressor who wins and the oppressed who suffer.¡¨Levin is a lifelong Democrat who wasn¡¦t happy when Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush or George W. Bush won the presidency. But never did if feel like this. Her Republican neighbors tell her to relax, that it will all be fine. Levin trusts her instincts.¡§I see a man who is not ¡X or a regime now ¡X who is not paying much attention to our history and our norms,¡¨ Levin said. ¡§Say what you¡¦d like, but I¡¦m scared. ÿ I¡¦m afraid. Not so afraid for me ¡X I¡¦m not going to be around probably to experience it. But I¡¦m afraid for those I love, for those I don¡¦t love, those I know, those I don¡¦t know. It¡¦s all those people coming after me who might have to live under this.¡¨We met, for a third time over the past year, at the Bethlehem studio where Levin regularly does Pilates. She is sharp and witty and energetic. But she worries she may have been on the losing side in her last presidential election.¡§I¡¦m pretty sure,¡¨ Levin said matter of factly about Trump being the last president she sees. ¡§I mean at my age. Chances are good that he will be.¡¨Levin is among the voters who participated in ourAll Over the Map project, an effort to track the 2024 campaign through the eyes and experiences of Americans who live in key battlegrounds or are part of critical voting groups, or both.Voters over the age of 65 are among the most reliable to cast ballots. Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris evenly split these voters nationally, with 49% each, according to exit polls. In Pennsylvania, Trump had an edge with voters 65 and over ¡V 52% to 48% for Harris.Pennsylvania voter Pat Levin talks politics during a Pilates class with CNN's John King.CNNLevin lives in Northampton County, a place with a history of picking presidents. The winner in Northampton has carried Pennsylvania and won the White House in five consecutive elections, and all but three dating back 100 years.Levin sees women¡¦s rights in retreat; lies and distortions that go largely unchallenged; meanness toward immigrants; and disdain for civility and democratic norms.¡§It¡¦s a scary thing when you think about ¡X is Elon Musk the shadow president?¡¨ Levin said. ¡§Isn¡¦t that scary to have to ask that question? Have we ever had to ask that before?¡¨We visited Levin and others in our Northampton County voter group just days after apost-election trip to Iowa, where Republicans who supported Trump were ebullient at his sweep of the swings states and win in the popular vote. Those Republicans support mass deportations and trade tariffs and see him as a strong leader on the world stage, while dismissing talk he is a threat to democracy.Conversations with Democrats so soon after felt like entering a parallel universe.¡§There are no guardrails any longer,¡¨ Levin said. ¡§I mean, he has control. Control of the Supreme Court. What¡¦s left in terms of stopping him? I don¡¦t know what that is unless it¡¦s a people. And it takes people with a lot of courage to buck that trend.¡¨Finding local ways to channel their disappointmentMarvin Boyer, too, is beyond disappointed in the election outcome and sees many troubling things on Trump¡¦s priorities list. But he prefers to wait and see if things will be as bad as Levin predicts.¡§I always think positive and hope that our better angels will, you know, resurrect,¡¨ said Boyer, a lifelong resident of Easton, Pennsylvania. ¡§But, again, it was a message of divisiveness, of separation, of fear, and that seemed to resonate with a good deal of the population unfortunately.¡¨Boyer, 75, has been a civil rights and community activist as long as he can remember. We met at a community center where the main meeting space is dedicated to Boyer¡¦s mother. On this day, it was being used to pack and organize Thanksgiving meal bags, and the community garden behind the building was another example of how local heroes like Boyer do what they can to help those who need a hand.He urges disappointed Democrats to, like him, find a cause or causes close to home.¡§This will not be my first disappointment rodeo,¡¨ Boyer said. ¡§You have to give him a chance, despite some misgivings I have. ÿ I often run into people who complain a lot, you know, and I¡¦m a doer, and I say, be the change that you want to see in the community. Get involved in a local organization. Be more of an activist.¡¨Kamala Harris supporter Marvin Boyer gives CNN's John King a tour of Easton Area Neighborhood Center's food pantry.CNNStill, it is clear Boyer¡¦s innate optimism faces challenges processing what he hears from Trump and what he sees from some voters, including fellow Black men in his own beloved community.¡§It looks like it¡¦s a revenge thing that he¡¦s going for,¡¨ is how Boyer characterized the president-elect¡¦s Cabinet and other personnel choices. ¡§A big frankly, F-You to the other side.¡¨Boyer sees Trump as constantly stoking fears about America becoming more diverse, which makes the president-elect¡¦s inroads among Black men especially troubling to him.¡§I will hear what they have to say, and that¡¦s what I do. I listen,¡¨ Boyer said.Then his turn: ¡§Why do you feel that way? Why would you vote for this guy? Why would you vote for an individual who I think is a racist who is a misogynist. ÿ Who is with the January 6 situation? Why would you vote for a guy like that?¡¨The response usually follows these lines, Boyer said: ¡§Because he tells it like it is, and that resonates with me.¡¨¡¥The quiet resistance¡¦Boyer¡¦s suggestion to channel disappointment into activism is already part of Darrell Ann Murphy¡¦s post-election plan ¡X one she adopted with friends after a few days of crying.¡§Friends of mine have started groups, we¡¦re calling it the quiet resistance,¡¨ Murphy said in an interview at her home in suburban Palmer Township, a short drive from Easton. ¡§We still have a voice. This is, you know, November of 2024, we still have a voice, not sure about 2025, but this is still America.¡¨Murphy, 84, teaches the Chinese tile game Mahjong, and says she was blindsided by the election results ¡V in Northampton County and nationally ¡V because most of the fellow seniors taking classes were Harris supporters. Three weeks later, she¡¦s still trying to understand and is most worried about reproductive rights and a Trump tone Murphy sees as toxic.¡§I don¡¦t know how long I¡¦m going to be around,¡¨ Murphy said. ¡§I need to feel for my kids and grandchildren and the next generation, I need to feel some hope, some hope. Means more, means more to seniors. You know it really does.¡¨Pennsylvania voters Darrell Ann Murphy, Pamela Aita and Catherine Long reflect on the outcome of the election over a game of Mahjong in Easton, Pennsylvania.CNNOur recent visit was the third time we sat in on a Mahjong game at Murphy¡¦s home ¡V the third time she and Catherine Long sparred feistily with Pamela Aita, a Republican and Trump supporter.¡§I don¡¦t have to have dinner with Donald Trump,¡¨ Aita, 72, said when character questions came up. ¡§I don¡¦t care what he does. Just keep me safe, keep my grandkids safe, and have money in our pockets. That¡¦s all. That¡¦s what, that¡¦s my concern. I think the man can do that job. ¡§Long, 68, took issue.¡§I have a problem having a man keep me safe who is a convicted felon and doesn¡¦t believe in the laws of the land,¡¨ she said. ¡§I¡¦m scared to death of what he¡¦s going to do.¡¨Aita reminds her friends Trump was president before. ¡§Did anything horrible happen to the country?¡¨ she asked.Long and Murphy said Trump was incompetent handling the Covid-19 pandemic.That they can spar, and smile, is sadly rare in today¡¦s polarized politics. Aita at first blames Trump¡¦s critics, but then agrees he, too, often stokes the fighting.¡§I¡¦m saying both parties, both parties,¡¨ she said. ¡§Knock it off. ÿ Just let¡¦s all come together for this country. It¡¦s just, I don¡¦t know, I don¡¦t like the division and everything.¡¨Murphy can agree on that point.¡§It¡¦s awful,¡¨ she said. ¡§It is affecting every family, every friendship.¡¨But the disagreement stirs again as Aita tries to wrap that point.¡§We have to just knock it off,¡¨ she said. ¡§He¡¦s president for four years. We¡¦ll have another election.¡¨Long interjects.¡§We hope,¡¨ she said. ¡§I have fears that he won¡¦t leave.¡¨Aita: ¡§Come on. That¡¦s ridiculous.¡¨Long: ¡§I¡¦m not kidding. I have fears that he won¡¦t leave.¡¨The CNN visitor suggests it can be a topic of polite Mahjong debate for the next four years.¡§If we¡¦re still here on this earth,¡¨ Murphy said.¡§Yes,¡¨ Aita echoed. ¡§We might not be here, John. You ever think of that?¡¨Back to the game. Won on this day, perhaps fittingly, by Aita, the Trump supporter."	9423	
cnn	Even Iowa Republicans who initially wanted to move on from Trump see hope ¡X and a mandate ¡X in his win	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/19/politics/iowa-voters-trump-mandate/index.html	"Kellerton, IowaCNN¡XShanen Ebersole believes if people better understood her life they would better understand her unapologetic vote forDonald Trump.¡§The majority of people who voted for Trump are not the far-right crazies,¡¨ Ebersole said in an interview. ¡§That is not who we are. We are simple Americans who want to live our lives and do our jobs and make our own choices in our own homes.¡¨Ebersole and her husband have a cattle ranch in southwest Iowa, in a little town of rolling hills and gravel roads.¡§DoorDash isn¡¦t a thing,¡¨ Ebersole said with a smile. ¡§Pizza delivery is not a thing. You can¡¦t even get pizza delivered where we live.¡¨Kellerton is in Ringgold County, along the Iowa-Missouri border. Trump won 75% of the county vote. Ebersole said the reasons why are straightforward.¡§Care about all of us, don¡¦t prioritize small individual groups first,¡¨ she said. ¡§We felt as though Washington and the far edges of our country were governing the rest of middle America.¡¨Ebersole wasn¡¦t as bullish about Trump at the outset of the presidential campaign. Yes, she voted for him in 2016 and 2020, but she supported former South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley in the Iowa caucuses because while she approves of most Trump policies, she believed it important that Republicans find a new leader who could be both president and role model.¡§He wasn¡¦t as respectful as I think our president should be,¡¨ Ebersole told us when we first met in December 2023. ¡§Because he didn¡¦t bring us together. Because of the divisiveness. Because of my liberal friends who were literally scared for their safety.¡¨Once Trump clinched the nomination, Ebersole said her choice was easy because of Biden-Harris administration farm and climate policies she says punish small operators like her family business. ¡§Those policies made it a no-brainer for me,¡¨ Ebersole said. ¡§My only reticence was wanting to bring us together.¡¨Now, with Trump preparing to return to the White House, Ebersole again stressed her hope for a less confrontational politics. But her tone about Trump and the sources of division is different.¡§They are still scared,¡¨ she said of her liberal friends. ¡§The fear tactics of the left make them more afraid of Trump. ÿ The point that I would really tell my liberal friends to understand is just because we voted in a very conservative president, that means that we don¡¦t want to put rules on you either. We just care about our own liberties.¡¨Ebersole is among the voters who participated in ourAll Over the Map project, an effort to track the 2024 campaign through the eyes and experiences of voters in key voting blocs or from key campaign battlegrounds. Iowa was our first stop, back when the first question of the 2024 campaign was whether Trump retained his grip on the GOP. We visited three times during the campaign, and then returned after the election to get a sense of what these Republican voters want and expect when Trump returns to the White House in January.Ebersole said she hopes the president-elect reads his mandate as an urgent call to focus on the economy and immigration.¡§Deportation is necessary because we have allowed way too many undocumented people to come in,¡¨ Ebersole said. ¡§But we also need a path, a path for those people to become Americans.¡¨She is an unabashed fan of Trump¡¦s call for tariffs on foreign products.¡§Why are we bringing Argentinian beef in?¡¨ she asked. ¡§Why are we bringing in New Zealand and Australian beef in and then exporting some of our beef? Why don¡¦t we first just feed our beef to our Americans?¡¨And she hopes Trump looks at his victory in the popular vote and understands that voters like her want him to set aside the campaign talk about rooting out ¡§the enemy within¡¨ or seeking retribution. ¡§We are not letting him be a bully, but we want him to stand firm,¡¨ she said.After considering Biden, she¡¦s trusting TrumpLike Ebersole, Betsy Sarcone began the election cycle believing it was time for Republicans to move on from Trump. She was so adamant that she initially said she would vote for President Joe Biden if it came down to a rematch of the 2020 race.¡§I just can¡¦t put my rubber stamp on Trump having more influence over this country,¡¨ Sarcone told us in August 2023. ¡§Because I view Trump as not having any personal accountability.¡¨But Sarcone viewed Vice President Kamala Harris as too liberal and inauthentic and ended up ¡§actually excited¡¨ to cast her vote for Trump.¡§I¡¦ve come to the conclusion that I don¡¦t love Donald Trump as a person, but I do think he is right for the country right now and that he is going to chart a different course.¡¨¡§I¡¦m feeling relieved,¡¨ she said in an interview at her home in suburban Des Moines last week. ¡§Honestly, it¡¦s nice to not have to feel like you are silent anymore.¡¨That last part is instructive; Trump¡¦s win in the popular vote alongside his battleground state sweeps is emboldening to his supportersJohn King pictured with Betsy Sarcone and her son.CNNWhen we first met Sarcone, Trump¡¦s toxic language and temper were reasons she cited in searching for a different Republican candidate. Now, though, when asked about Trump¡¦s angry words at campaign rallies, she offered a different take.¡§What I see is him being mad at an open border, being mad at the crime rates, being mad at the economy,¡¨ Sarcone said. ¡§I¡¦m completely OK with that.¡¨Her priorities: lower interest rates to help her real estate business, and lower grocery prices. ¡§I¡¦m a mom, single mother of three kids,¡¨ she said. ¡§So that does make a huge difference in my life.¡¨She does not have amnesia about Trump¡¦s first term. ¡§When Trump gets off track, off his train of thought, that¡¦s when we get in trouble. If we are focused on the goals, focused on what we really need to fix this country, I think we are going to be OK,¡¨ Sarcone said.Her patience is already being tested, though Sarcone said she has a different perspective on how to cope.Some early Trump Cabinet picks, especially former Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz for attorney general, have triggered eye rolls or worse.¡§Not necessarily excited,¡¨ Sarcone said. ¡§Worried? I wouldn¡¦t say I am worried. ÿ I¡¦m just going to put my trust in him at this point.¡¨She stays calm by remembering she could not vote for Harris.¡§I voted for change, as did the majority of people, and that is what we are going to get,¡¨ Sarcone said. ¡§So I don¡¦t think worrying about it every day is going to do me any good.¡¨Excited for Trump even if business takes a hitChris Mudd is a Team Trump original ¡X going back to 2015.He owns Midwest Solar and his vote could hurt his business; the startup has benefited from Biden administration clean energy incentives.¡§It¡¦s possible,¡¨ Mudd said of taking a hit if Trump ends those incentives. ¡§I sell value. I sell saving money, not selling the green energy side of the business.¡¨But he urged Trump to go full speed ahead, including with tariffs that could raise prices on Chinese components he needs for some big solar installations.¡§Most of our stuff is tariff free,¡¨ Mudd said in an interview at his Waterloo office last week. ¡§So, I want to see more products and services get built in this country. I want to see our pharmaceuticals get produced here instead of China.¡¨Republican voter Chris Mudd gives a tour of a solar panel installation near Cedar Falls, Iowa.CNNMudd believes Congress should confirm Trump¡¦s personnel picks and quickly act on his policy priorities as well.¡§It¡¦s important that we round up every illegal and ship them out,¡¨ Mudd said. ¡§And we have to figure out a way to get them back to work. I do believe that we need immigration. A country needs immigration. It just needs to be legal.¡¨Mudd said the mood among Trump supporters is ¡§excitement and optimism. ÿ The stock market is jumping up. I think business is going to get good.¡¨And he took issue with Trump critics who see his agenda as mean spirited.¡§I would say, ¡¥Get over it,¡¦¡¨ Mudd said. ¡§I don¡¦t believe there is anything to be scared of. There are people who are scared. But I believe it is false. I believe they are scared over things that are not real.¡¨"	8076	
cnn	Fact check: Trump falsely claims he never wanted to end the Affordable Care Act	https://www.cnn.com/2024/10/31/politics/aca-trump-repeal-affordable-care-act/index.html	"CNN¡XCalling Vice President Kamala Harris ___a liar,___ former President Donald Trump claimed that he never wanted to terminate the Affordable Care Act ___ an accusation Harris has repeatedly levied against him on the campaign trail.___Lyin___ Kamala is giving a News Conference now, saying that I want to end the Affordable Care Act. I never mentioned doing that, never even thought about such a thing,___ the former presidentposted on XThursday.Facts First:Trump is trying to rewrite history. Repealing and replacing the landmark health reform law, popularly known as Obamacare, was among his top campaign promises when he first ran for president in 2016, and he spent the initial months of his term pushing Congress to pass legislation to do just that. Trump revived the idea early in the current campaign before backtracking. At September___s presidential debate with Harris, he called the Affordable Care Act ___lousy___ and said ___we___ are working on ___things___ to replace it.Even before he ran for office, Trump was crusading on Twitter, now known as X, to repeal the law signed by his predecessor, Barack Obama.Duringhis 2016 campaign, he promised supporters that he would quickly dismantle the Affordable Care Act. Within hours of taking office in January 2017, he issued anexecutive orderaimed at rolling back the law.After the GOP-led House of Representatives passed a repeal bill in May 2017, Trump called them to the White House for a celebratory appearance and said Obamacare was ___essentially dead.______This is a great plan. I actually think it will get even better. This is a repeal and replace of Obamacare. Make no mistake about it,___ Trump said.However, even though Republicans controlled Congress and the White House that year, they__failed to unite__behind a plan to do so, ending any serious attempts to completely jettison the Affordable Care Act. Trump spent the rest of his termchipping awayat the law.The former president revived the debate over the law___s fate in November 2023, when he__wrote__on his Truth Social platform that he___s ___seriously looking at alternatives___ and that the failure to terminate it ___was a low point for the Republican Party, but we should never give up!___Trump has recently tried to change his tack ___ promising to come up with a health care plan that___s better.___What we will do is we___re looking at different plans,___ Trump said at September___s debate, noting that he had ___concepts of a plan.______If we can come up with a plan that___s going to cost our people, our population, less money and be better health care than Obamacare, then I would absolutely do it. But until then, I___d run it as good as it can be run,___ he said."	2707	
cnn	"Before DOGE, Ramaswamy spent years attacking Musk for ties to China"	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/04/politics/ramaswamy-musk-china-doge-kfile/index.html	"CNN¡XVivek Ramaswamy, the co-chair of the proposedDepartment of Government Efficiencyalongside billionaire Elon Musk, has a lengthy history of attacking his partner___s ties to China, frequently referring to Musk as a ___circus monkey___ and a puppet for the Chinese Communist Party.Ramaswamy___s critiques, reviewed by CNN___s KFile, include pointed remarks about Musk___s 2022 suggestionthat Taiwan should becomea special administrative region of China, a stance aligned with Beijing___s interests and one that drew praise from Chinese officials.Tesla___s investments in the Chinese market and Musk___s comment on Taiwan have drawn fierce criticism from Ramaswamy, who argued the Tesla CEO was pandering to the Chinese Communist Party for business benefits, such as regulatory approvals and tax breaks.___I think Tesla is increasingly beholden to China,___ Ramaswamysaid in May 2023when discussingthe carmaker___s decision to build abattery plantin Shanghai.Elon Musk speaks with U.S. President-elect Donald Trump and guests at a viewing of the launch of the sixth test flight of the SpaceX Starship rocket on November 19, 2024 in Brownsville, Texas. SpaceX___s billionaire owner, Elon Musk, a Trump confidante, has been tapped to lead the new Department of Government Efficiency alongside former presidential candidate Vivek Ramaswamy.Brandon Bell/Getty ImagesRelated articleMusk and Ramaswamy suggest ending time changes, reviving an effort that has failed in the past___I have no reason to think Elon won___t jump like a circus monkey when Xi Jinping calls in the hour of need,___ Ramaswamy added, referring to the general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party and president of China.Tesla is deeply reliant on China,with deliveries fromits Shanghai facility accounting for more than half its global sales in 2023.In their collaboration within theDepartment of Governmental Efficiency, or DOGE, Musk and Ramaswamyshare a goalof cutting federal regulations and reducing the federal workforce. But Musk___s role as the leader of companies with lucrative government contracts has sparked concerns about his potential conflicts of interest.Ramaswamy___s own words could be used by critics to question Musk___s role as a government cost-cutter, given how much his own companies have benefited over the years from billions of dollars in government contracts and assistance.Vivek Ramaswamy speaks at the Republican National Convention on July 16, 2024, in Milwaukee.Leon Neal/Getty Images___Both Tesla and SpaceX quite likely would not exist as successful businesses if it were not for the use of public funding, either through subsidies, through the electric car industry, or through actual government contracting in the case of SpaceX,___ Ramaswamysaid in 2022 on a Fox News podcast.Though Musk, the world___s richest man, and Ramaswamy, himself a millionaire, are both seen as friends of Big Tech, the two have divergent views when it comes to China. While Musk has recently favored closer ties, Ramaswamy has called for an economic decoupling from China.As a presidential candidate in the 2024 GOP primary, Ramaswamy was often critical of US economic ties to China. While he claimed other companies such as Apple and Black Rock were enabling and making political concessions to China, he often singled out Musk for some of his harshest criticism.___Elon Musk has, I think, demonstrated his willingness to change his political tunes based on the favors that he gets to be able to do business in China,___ Ramaswamy added on the 2022 Fox News podcast.Examining potential for DOGE partnershipCNN___s KFile reviewed Ramaswamy___s comments on Musk when looking into how the two might operate DOGE, the nongovernmental entity. Trump proposed creating a government efficiency commission as part of his economic plans unveiled in September, claiming it could save trillions by eliminating fraud and improper payments within six months.Pete Hegseth, President-elect Donald Trump's pick to lead the Defense Deparment, at the Russell Senate Office Building in Washington, DC, on November 21, 2024.Tierney L. Cross/The New York Times/ReduxkfileHegseth has a history of supporting controversial policies involving the militaryTrump___s statement last monthannouncing the creationof DOGE quoted Musk as saying that ___this will send shockwaves through the system, and anyone involved in Government waste, which is a lot of people!___ Ramaswamy separatelyresponded on Xwith a slogan he often used during his presidential campaign to call for the elimination of federal agencies, writing: ___SHUT IT DOWN.___But Ramaswamy___s sharp critiques of Musk___s ties to China, all made within the last two years, have received little attention. Given how persistently he criticized Musk, the comments raise questions over how the two intend to work together.Musk, through a spokesperson, declined to comment.Ramaswamy said his past attacks on Musk came before they had ever met.___We aired some of these issues the first time we spoke,___ he said in a statement. Along with crediting Musk for taking ___extraordinary risks against his financial interests,___ Ramaswamy told CNN the two know each other well now. ___I love him and respect the hell out of him, and I___m proud to call him a friend. The only country he puts first is the same one I do: the United States of America.___Elon Musk attends the America First Policy Institute Gala held at Mar-a-Lago on November 14, 2024, in Palm Beach, Florida.Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesA lengthy history of attacks on MuskOn a number of occasions, Ramaswamy pointed to Musk___s Taiwan comments as an example of tailoring his political positions to appease the Chinese government, drawing a direct connection between Musk___s comments and Tesla___s business benefits.___He got a nice ___attaboy___ on the back, a little pat on the back when his Shanghai factory and regulator in China gave him a nice little tax break within days after him having made that comment about Taiwan,___ Ramaswamysaid in another interview in 2022.Muskreportedlytold Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang in May 2023 that Tesla was against the notion of decoupling, instead referring to the interests of the US and China as ___intertwined like conjoined twins.___Ramaswamy criticized Musk___s comment in multiple posts on X.In one lengthy post targeting Musk in May 2023he wrote,  ___the U.S. needs leaders who aren___t in China___s pocket.______Now the crusader for ___free speech___ (@elonmusk) kisses the ring of the world___s biggest censor: Xi Jinping,___ he wrote inanother June 2023tweet.Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy.ReutersRelated articleMusk and Ramaswamy think they have new power to cut federal regulations. Here___s why it___s not so simpleRamaswamy echoed those comments multiple times in 2023 and 2022.___I do think it is a kinship that Tim Cook and Elon Musk probably have, is that they both bend the knee to the true overlord, which is Xi Jinping,___ said Ramaswamyin 2022,mentioning Cook, Apple___s CEO.___This is what China___s recognized, is that US companies will jump; if Xi Jinping says ___jump,___ they___ll say, ___How high?______ he said in another comment mentioning Muskin June 2023 on Fox News.In a July 2023 interview, Ramaswamy also labeled US companies___ dependence on China a ___great threat___ to the US and argued Musk___s push to advance electric vehicle manufacturing has made America less competitive on fossil fuel production.___And by the way, all this is for an electric vehicle movement that is about actually ___ in part ___ subsidizing a form of behavior in the United States that leaves the US less competitive when it comes to fossil fuel production, as well as fossil fuel utilization. And by the way, constraints that don___t apply in China in the same way,___ he said inMay 2023 on his podcast.Despite recent subsidies to lower the cost of electric vehicles, the US remains the world leader in fossil fuel production,pumping a record13.4 million barrels of crude oil a day this year."	8026	
cnn	Hegseth has a history of supporting controversial policies involving the military	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/03/politics/hegseth-controversial-views-military-kfile/index.html	"CNN¡XAs protestsbroke out across American citiesin June 2020, Pete Hegseth, co-host of the weekend ¡§Fox & Friends¡¨ show, joined an on-air panel to discuss the situation in Seattle, where protestors had created aself-declared autonomous zonearound a few blocks near downtown.Hegseth, speaking remotely from his home, suggested the only way to save the city was to send in the military.¡§The question is, do you send in the troops? Do you say, ¡¥Hey, this isn¡¦t going to happen anymore¡¦? Or do you let Seattle, sort of, implode on itself?¡¨said Hegseth,comparing it to teaching a wayward child a lesson.¡§It¡¦s the idea of you caught your kid with cigarettes underage. Do you take them away right away or do you force them to smoke every cigarette in front of you in the entire pack to learn the lesson of what¡¦s not going to work?¡¨As President-electDonald Trump¡¦spick to lead the US militaryas secretary of defense, Hegseth would be in position to execute that kind of order should it come from the White House.During his first term in office, Trump never went so far as to order active-duty troops to put down riots in American cities. The closest he came was in the summer of 2020, when heordered the DC National Guardto assist local law enforcement in responding to riots and looting in the city. He alsoasked governorsto send in their state guard units to DC.Pete Hegseth meets with Sen. Tommy Tuberville R-Ala., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, at the Capitol on Dec. 2, 2024.J. Scott Applewhite/APRelated articleFox News ignores Pete Hegseth misconduct allegations as concerns over Trump pick mountAmong those who deployed to the nation¡¦s capital that summer was Hegseth.¡§If the National Guard had not been called up, I can¡¦t help but think where Washington, DC, would be right now,¡¨Hegseth saidon Fox News in 2020.Hegseth also applauded a controversial New York Timesop-edwritten that summer by Republican Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton, who called for the military to break up nationwide riots around the country.While Hegseth called the policy a ¡§very mainstream idea,¡¨ somePentagon officials expressed concernabout using the military to ¡§dominate¡¨ protesters and worried about using military force against civilians.Polls at the time indicated Americans wereevenly spliton the idea of using the military to quell riots and protests that summer.Military enforcements respond during a protest near Lafayette Park ahead of President Donald Trump's trip to St. John's Church on June 1, 2020, in downtown Washington, DC.Drew Angerer/Getty ImagesHegseth¡¦s position on using the military to put down domestic riots is among a number of controversial policies he has supported in the past, including speaking in favor of enhanced interrogation methods such as waterboarding, pardoning US soldiers convicted of war crimes, targeting cultural institutions in drone strikes, andbanning women from combat roles.CNN¡¦s KFile reviewed hundreds of Hegseth¡¦s radio and TV appearances from 2008 through 2024, many of which occurred while he was a Fox News contributor and host. After initially criticizing Trump¡¦s lack of national security experience during the 2016 presidential primaries, Hegseth became one of Trump¡¦s most ardent supporters after he won the election that year.On military matters in particular, Hegseth has often praised Trump¡¦s decisions and sometimes encouraged him to go further.Hegseth¡¦s selection has been clouded by a number of factors, including his decision in 2020 to pay anundisclosed amount in a settlementto a woman who accused him of sexually assaulting her in 2017. Hegseth strongly deniesher allegations.President-elect Donald Trump's nominee to be Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth speaks to reporters as he leaves the Russell Senate Office Building on November 21, 2024 in Washington, DC.Kevin Dietsch/Getty ImagesRelated articleThe New Yorker: Pete Hegseth forced out of veterans¡¦ advocacy groups over misconduct allegationsA New Yorker articlepublished Sundayalleged Hegsethwas pushed out as the head of two veterans¡¦ advocacy organizations amid internal allegations of financial mismanagement and personal misconduct.Hegseth¡¦s lack of experience has also raised concerns about his ability to manage a large organization like the Pentagon with its nearly $1 trillion annual budget.But his views on certain aspects of military policy, albeit expressed from the confines of his job as a cable news co-host, strike some experts as outside the mainstream, not in keeping with classic military doctrine, and all but impossible to implement.¡§If he came into the secretary of defense job trying to institute all these policies, boom, boom, boom, the place would stop functioning and he would find himself an irrelevant secretary of defense,¡¨ said retired Army Maj. Gen. James ¡§Spider¡¨ Marks, a CNN military analyst.In a statement to CNN, a spokesperson for the Trump-Vance transition touted Hegseth¡¦s record of military service and defended his past comments as a Fox News host.¡§Pete has shared points of view in the past as a private citizen and media personality, but as nominee for Secretary of Defense, he¡¦s committed to upholding the Constitution and President Trump¡¦s Make America Strong Again agenda,¡¨ the statement read.An early Trump criticA Princeton and Harvard graduate, Hegseth, 44, joined the Army National Guard in 2002 and served for nearly 20 years before retiring as a major. He deployed to Guantanamo Bay, where he served as an infantry platoon leader, and later served combat tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. He was awarded two Bronze Stars, among other awards, for his service.He frequently appeared on Fox News while working at veterans-related nonprofits and later became the weekend co-host of ¡§Fox & Friends¡¨ in 2017.During the 2016 presidential election, Hegseth initially supported Republican Sens. Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz. He harshly criticized Trump¡¦s grasp of national security issues and forsayingthat he got his military advice from people like himself on Fox News.¡§You wouldn¡¦t want a top-tier presidential candidate getting all of their military advice from watching ¡¥Meet the Press.¡¦ There¡¦s a lot more nuance. There¡¦s a lot more detail,¡¨ Hegseth said in August 2015.¡§Foreign policy, national security is not about TV shows. [The campaign is] going to have to walk back a little bit from this idea that he gets it from the political shows.¡¨Before Trump secured the 2016 Republican nomination, Hegseth also attacked him for his five draft deferments during the Vietnam War, calling him an ¡§armchair tough guy.¡¨¡§[Trump is] all bluster, very little substance. He talks a tough game. But then when pressed he¡¦s an armchair tough guy,¡¨ Hegseth said on Fox Newsin March 2016, notingthat Trump sought his ¡§own five military deferments.¡¨In this December 2016 photo, Fox News contributor Pete Hegseth arrives at Trump Tower in New York City.Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesInOctober 2015, Hegseth further attacked Trump for flip-flopping his position on the war in Afghanistan ¡V first saying he never supported the war and calling it a mistake before reversing that position ¡V and condemned Trump¡¦s stance on the Iraq War and the veterans who fought in it.Hegseth on numerous occasions was critical of Trump¡¦s stances on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, which the president-elect has shifted multiple times over the years. However, Hegseth has since embraced Trump¡¦s skepticism of those two wars and his ¡§America First¡¨ ethos.¡§If you step back for a moment and look at what was our return on investment, you start to realize, I can eat ¡V I need to eat some humble pie. Put America first and realize that our orientation in the Middle East is ultimately not making us safer right now,¡¨ Hegseth said in September 2020.War criminals and waterboardingIn 2019,CNN reportedthat Hegseth was privately courting Trump to pardon some servicemen accused and convicted of war crimes. Against theadvice of his Pentagon officials, who worried the pardons would undermine the military justice system, Trump pardoned two service members and restored the rank of a Navy SEAL who had been demoted.Hegseth reiterated his support for not criminalizing soldiers on a podcastin June 2024.¡§Donald Trump pardoned a bunch of guys I advocated for in his last couple years in office. They killed the right guys in the wrong way, according to somebody. I¡¦m done with that,¡¨ Hegseth said. ¡§We need to fight total war against our enemies when we do. And yeah, you don¡¦t kill civilians on purpose, but you kill bad guys. All of ¡¦em, you stack bodies, and when it¡¦s over, then you let the dust settle and you figure out who¡¦s ahead.¡¨Hegseth also pushed Trump to take further action against Iran after the presidentordered a drone strikein January 2020 that killed Iranian commander Qasem Soleimani.In a Fox News segment, Hegseth suggested Trump should take further action by targeting cultural sites that may harbor dangerous weapons ¡V a violation of both international law and theDepartment of Defense¡¦s policy.¡§If we want to defeat them, we have to think smart about how we navigate within these rules, without playing a game rigged to help them,¡¨he said in January 2020. ¡§I don¡¦t want to hit cultural sites on purpose. If you are using one to harbor your most dangerous weapons, that should be on the list.¡¨LikeTrump, Hegseth has also praised waterboarding as an ¡§effective¡¨ tactic. He said it was ¡§absolutely a mistake¡¨ to take waterboarding off the table in 2016 and said the president had the power to bring it back.¡§If it¡¦s gonna keep us safe, all it would take is an executive order by the next president to change that law,¡¨ Hegsethsaidin 2016.Congress codifieda ban on waterboarding in 2015.CNN¡¦s Winter Hawk and Ileya Robinson-Williams contributed to this report."	9789	
cnn	"Trump¡¦s extreme dislike of FBI directors, explained"	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/23/politics/donald-trump-fbi-what-matters/index.html	"A version of this story appeared in CNN___s What Matters newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for freehere.CNN¡XPresident-elect Donald Trump isstill putting together his Cabinetfor his second term, and many other government positions will open up when he takes the oath of office in January.But there___s a growing expectation that he will quickly make at least one new vacancy by firing FBI Director Christopher Wray.Donald Trump in Allentown, Pennsylvania, on October 29.Brendan McDermid/Reuters/FileRelated articleWith Gaetz out as attorney general pick, Trump___s right flank looks for a new ally at FBIThere would be some circularity in that particular personnel move since it was Trump who hired Wray, a Republican, by nominating him to a 10-year term in 2017. That said, Trump has never shied away from firing someone he once backed.FBI directors get those 10-year terms as the result of a post-Watergate law that was in response to J. Edgar Hoover___s much-too-long and controlling 48-year leadership of the FBI.The term length is supposed to inoculate the director from political pressure. But it never works out that way.If Trump fires Wray, he___d be first president to fire 2 FBI directorsTrump famouslyfired then-FBI Director James Comeymonths after taking office for his first term in 2017. Comey was also a Republican, although he was nominated to the position by Democratic President Barack Obama. (Comeylater said in 2018that he ___can___t be associated with___ the Republican Party due to Trump___s influence on the GOP.)Presidents before Trump pushed FBI directors outIn 1993, Bill Clintonfired then-FBI Director William Sessionsafter an internal ethics report emerged during the prior year___s presidential campaign. It included questions about a $10,000 fence installed around the director___s home and flights he had taken, among other issues.Earlier, Jimmy Carter suggested during the 1976 presidential campaign that he would have firedthen-FBI Director Clarence Kelleyover revelations about window drapery valances improperly installed at his home, among other things. Carter did not immediately fire Kelley when he took the White House, but Kelley was ultimately forced to resign, according to Douglas Charles, a history professor at Penn State University, who noted that the drapery scandal ___today seems like very small fry stuff.___But at the time, it would have tested the new law, which Congress passed in 1976, for Carter to fire Kelley.___There certainly was the question, can any president fire an FBI director when there___s a legislated 10-year term,___ Charles said.While that question has clearly been answered now, those previous firings were about ethics and personal failings. Trump___s are about policy differences, including over the role of the Justice Department overall.Why did Trump fire Comey?The stated reasons for Comey___s firing,laid out in a memoprepared for Trump___s Justice Department, were contradictory. Comey was criticized both for not prosecuting Hillary Clinton over her treatment of classified material and then for releasing ___derogatory___ information about Clinton at a press conference.The real reason Comey was fired,as Trump admittedto NBC News at the time, was Comey___s investigation into ties between Trump___s 2016 campaign and Russia.Former FBI director James Comey takes his seat at the beginning of the Senate Intelligence Committee hearing in Washington, DC, on June 8, 2017.Andrew Harnik/APThen Trump___s troubles cascadedIn the furor that followed Comey___s firing, it was the author of the Justice Department memo recommending Comey___s firing, then-Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, whoappointed a special counselto follow up on the Russia investigation.Rosenstein appointed the special counsel because Trump___s attorney general, Jeff Sessions, hadrecused himselffrom any investigation related to Trump___s 2016 campaign. Sessions did so because he had failed during Senate confirmation hearings to disclose preelection contacts he had with Russia___s ambassador to the US at the time.Enter another former FBI directorWho did Rosenstein pick as special counsel to lead that Russia investigation? Robert S. Mueller III, who happened to be the former FBI director. Mueller was widely respected and had taken charge of the FBIdays beforethe 9/11 attacks in 2001. Congress passed aspecial lawto extend his term by two years during the Obama administration.Anyone who remembers Trump___s first term can recall that speculation about the Russia investigation sucked up much of the oxygen in Washington and led to the prosecution of several of Trump___s top 2016 campaign aides, including campaign chairman Paul Manafort, who Trump later pardoned. Trump has complained that the investigation was part of a ___deep state___ effort to undermine him.Unintended consequencesThecooperationby Trump___s former fixer Michael Cohen with Mueller___s investigation is what led to revelations about hush money payments for which Trump was convicted in New York earlier this year. Trump___s sentencing for his conviction on 34 counts of falsifying business records has beendelayed indefinitelyafter his election win.What the Mueller report concludedThe release of Mueller___s report wasslow-walkedby Trump___s second attorney general, Bill Barr, who gave the impression that Mueller___s report exonerated Trump. It did not.Mueller was constrained by Justice Department rules that bar the prosecution of a sitting president. When the full report was released in April 2019, Mueller said there was not enough evidence to prove collusion between Trump___s campaign and Russians. It also specifically did not exonerate Trump.___While this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,___the report said. It also concluded that while Trump___s campaign in 2016 expected help from Russia, it didn___t conspire with Russia. That gets forgotten after years of Trump referring to Mueller___s investigation as the ___Russia hoax.___There are things that helped generate the Mueller investigation, notably thediscredited Steele dossier, that will forever anger Trump.Then-special counsel Robert Mueller makes a statement about the Russia investigation on May 29, 2019, at the Justice Department in Washington, DC.Chip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesTrump targeted FBI officialsThere were also related scandals, such as the release of anti-Trump texts by an FBI agent at the time, Peter Strzok, who initially played a role in Mueller___s inquiry, and Lisa Page, who was then an FBI attorney with whom Strzok was having an affair. TheFBI agreedin July of this year to pay $2 million to Strzok and Page to compensate for the release of those text messages.Another FBI official, Andrew McCabe, who served briefly as acting director after Trump fired Comey, was fired by Sessions days before his retirement. McCabe, now a CNN contributor, ultimatelywon back his pension in court.Trump turned on WrayWray wasoverwhelmingly confirmedto succeed Comey in August 2017 in part by promising during confirmation hearings to maintain independence from the White House. Trump, meanwhile, prizes loyalty.Even while Trump was still presidentin 2020, he had already turned on Wray, in part because he felt Wray was not cooperating with special counsel John Durham ___ who was appointed by Barr, Sessions___ replacement, to investigate the Mueller investigation.In this 2017 photo, then-President Donald Trump sits with FBI Director Christopher Wray in Quantico, Virginia.Evan Vucci/AP/FileAll of that adds up to why Trump wants loyalists at the Department of Justice, including the FBI.Douglas said that about 100 years ago, in the wake of the Teapot Dome scandal that exposed corruption within the federal government, there was talk in the Senate of taking the Department of Justice, including the FBI, completely out of politics and making it and all of its employees an independent part of the civil service.Trump wants to go in the opposite direction today and bring the FBI more under the control of the president."	8109	
cnn	Trump cites Hunter Biden pardon in latest legal attempt to throw out hush money conviction	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/03/politics/trump-hush-money-hunter-biden-pardon/index.html	"CNN¡XDefense lawyers for President-elect Donald Trump are usingPresident Joe Biden___s pardon of his son Hunterto argue that Trump___s conviction in his Manhattan hush money case should be dismissed.___Yesterday in issuing a 10 year pardon to Hunter Biden that covers any and all crimes whether charged or uncharged, President Biden asserted that his son was ___selectively, and unfairly prosecuted___ and ___treated differently,______Trump lawyers wrote in a motion filed Monday.FILE PHOTO: U.S. President-elect Donald Trump attends a viewing of the launch of the sixth test flight of the SpaceX Starship rocket, in Brownsville, Texas, U.S., November 19, 2024 . Brandon Bell/Pool via REUTERS/File PhotoBrandon Bell/Pool/Reuters/FileRelated live-storyThe latest on Trump___s presidential transition as Cabinet picks head to Capitol HillTrump___s lawyers ___ Todd Blanche and Emil Bove ___ whom he haspicked for top Justice Department postsin his new administration ___ argue these comments amount to a condemnation of Biden___s own Justice Department and that New York District Attorney Alvin Bragg has engaged in the same kind of ___political theater.___Bragg___s office successfully prosecuted Trump earlier this year for falsifying business records related to hush money payments made to adult film star Stormy Daniels in 2016. Judge Juan Merchanindefinitely postponedTrump___s sentencing in the case after Trump won reelection. Trump___s lawyers also want the conviction dismissed, but the DA___s office says it will oppose any effort to toss the case.In addition to the pardon argument, Trump___s attorneys also told the judge that his case should be dismissed given his reelection last month.___President Trump___s status as President-elect and the soon-to-be sitting President is a ___legal impediment___ to further criminal proceedings based on the Presidential immunity doctrine (established by the Supreme Court last summer) and the Supremacy Clause,___ they wrote.They pointed to special counsel Jack Smith___s decision to end the two federal criminal cases he had brought against Trump last year ___ a decision Smith said was rooted in longstanding Justice Department policy barring the department from criminally pursuing a sitting president.___Even (Smith) has been forced to concede, by DOJ___s Office of Legal Counsel (___OLC___ ), that President Trump___s status as President-elect mandates dismissal of the unjust prosecutions pending against him,___ they wrote.Last month, Bragg___s office acknowledged to the court in New York that Trump is not likely to be sentenced ___until after the end of Defendant___s upcoming presidential term,___ but argued that Trump___sfelony convictionshould stand.A source close to the district attorney___s office said it is open to a four year pause of the case.___No current law establishes that a president___s temporary immunity from prosecution requires dismissal of apost-trialcriminal proceeding that was initiated at a time when the defendant was not immune from criminal prosecution and that is based on official conduct for which the defendant is also not immune,___ the district attorney___s office wrote.This story has been updated with additional details.CNN___s Devan Cole contributed to this report."	3264	
cnn	Democrats shift tactics on Trump Cabinet picks after lessons learned from first term	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/03/politics/democrats-trump-cabinet-nominees/index.html	"CNN¡XSenate Democrats staged dramatic showdowns to protest nominations during President-elect Donald Trump___s first term in office. This time around, Democrats are shifting tactics, reluctant to pick endless battles with Trump Cabinet picks that are unlikely to succeed.It___s a careful tightrope for a party that is still reeling from losing the White House and Senate in the November elections, but one that many Democrats believe reflects the underlying reality of the situation ___ voters picked Trump despite all of their party___s warnings and attacks against him. And Democrats may need to win over some of those very same voters to find their way out of the political wilderness.___The mood is slightly different than the last time and there is a sense that if you are freaking out about everything, it becomes really hard for people to sort out what is worth worrying about,___ Sen. Brian Schatz, a Democrat from Hawaii, told CNN.Now, Democrats are looking to implement a deliberate and disciplined strategy in Trump___s second term: pointing out the places where they could work with a nominee when they see fit and forcing Republicans to defend Trump___s picks when a nominee faces ethics questions, has a history of controversial statements or doesn___t have what Democrats view as the necessary qualifications for the job.___We have to acknowledge something even if we are disappointed that___s true: Trump won. He is the president. We have to accept that,___ Sen. Peter Welch, a Democrat from Vermont, said. ___We are going to approach this in a very straightforward way. President Trump won. He has a right to nominate his Cabinet members. Our approach will be to give him the benefit of the doubt but not a blank check.___Some Democrats have already been clear they may be open to voting for some of Trump___s picks even if they___ve sparred with them before. Democratic Sen. John Fetterman of Pennsylvania told CNN earlier this month he would ___absolutely___ vote to confirm his one-time political rival Dr. Mehmet Oz to lead a key health care agency as long as Oz ___agrees to protect and preserve Medicaid and Medicare,___ offering up praise for his qualifications as a doctor and even saying he would ___have a beer with the dude.___ And several Democrats said they are looking forward to backing their colleague Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida to be the next secretary of state.Sen. Peter Welch looks on during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing at the U.S. Capitol on July 11, 2024 in Washington, DC.Bonnie Cash/Getty ImagesDuring Trump___s first term in office, Democrats, in some instances, used procedural or tactical hurdles to delay votes in committee, something which can backfire quickly.Democrats won___t back away from made-for-TV moments during public confirmation hearings as they look to drive a wedge between Republicans on issues or past statements that nominees have made. But several Democrats CNN spoke to said they are also reticent to needlessly delay confirmations or ___play games,___ knowing that doing so could risk a GOP backlash and could embolden Trump to use what are known as recess appointments, essentially bypassing Congress altogether.Democrats stress that a measured approach shouldn___t be mistaken for Democratic support for Trump___s most controversial picks. In the course of conversations with more than a dozen Democrats, members and aides saidit___s clear that some of Trump___s most contentious picks from Pete Hegseth to lead the Department of Defense to his Director of National Intelligence selection, Tulsi Gabbard, are unlikely to win over many of their members. But Democrats believe their only real strategy to move the needle on these canbdidates is to give their GOP colleagues space to make the decisions about their futures on their own and not engage in partisan battles just for the sake of the exercise.Democrats are also acutely aware that they will be in the minority and Republicans have a comfortable three-seat margin.___Sometimes all you can do is create a record that shows people ___Ok, this is what you are getting,______ Sen. Tim Kaine, a Democrat from Virginia, told CNN.The Senate Democratic caucus is diverse and represents an ideological spectrum. As a result, there will won___t necessarily be one singular unified strategy. Some members may pursue divergent approaches or differ in their opinions. But based on interviews with multiple members and aides it___s clear that many in the party believe a new approach is needed after Democrats lost to Trump a second time.Sen. Tim Kaine speaks to reporters in the Senate Subway during a vote at the U.S. Capitol on June 20 in Washington, DC.Anna Moneymaker/Getty ImagesDuring the first Trump administration,Democrats staged a surprise boycott of the Senate Finance Committee to deny Republicans a quorum to vote to advance the nominations of Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin as Democrats argued they needed additional information about the nominees___ finances and business practices. Democrats similarly used procedural hurdles in the Senate Judiciary Committee to force Republicans to reconvene one day later to vote on Jeff Sessions to be the attorney general.At the time, Senate GOP Leader Mitch McConnell blasted Democrats for the moves, saying, ___It is time to get over the fact that they lost the election..none of this is going to lead to a different outcome.______I can___t predict what tactics may be adopted. I personally would be inclined to show up for committee meetings, not the private committee of a forum. That___s just my personal inclination,___ Democratic Sen. Richard Blumenthal said.For committees, a key question emerges with Trump shifting normsDemocrats are also clear they won___t cease reminding voters of the ways Trump and his incoming administration are defying precedent if they decline to have nominees undergo FBI background checks. On Monday, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer penned a letter to incoming GOP leader Sen. John Thuneinsisting that Thune maintain the process of confirming nominees, including FBI background checks.Schumer wrote that the Senate should work ___in a bipartisan fashion to process each nominee by reviewing standard FBI background-investigation materials, scheduling hearings and markups in the committees of jurisdiction, and considering nominees on the Senate floor.___Democrats are grappling with how much they need to do behind the scenes if Trump___s transition team follows through with their suggestion they won___t have nominees go through the normal FBI vetting process.___It is not like we can substitute the work of the FBI,___ one Democratic source told CNN on background to discuss internal deliberations.Sen. Brian Schatz during a hearing in Washington, DC, on Thursday, May 2, 2024.Ting Shen/Bloomberg/Getty ImagesWhile each committee has slight variations in how it is briefed on the background reports or uses their contents, members have largely argued that more information ___ not less ___ is essential in backstopping their decision of whether to support a nominee. Democrats warn that with some of Trump___s picks having never worked before in government, the checks are even more essential,especially as questions have been raised about the past behavior of some, including Hegseth, who was accused in 2017 of sexual assault. Police did not press charges andHegseth has denied the incident was an assault.Others suggested the question of whether Democrats engage in their own vetting is still very much up for discussion.___There have to be investigations so whether it___s the FBI or our committee staff, there have to be,___ Kaine said while acknowledging___It can be challenging___especially as Democrats are seated to lose power over those committees in a matter of weeks.Democrats will remain in the majority until January, but unlike the FBI, which is well versed in conducting the nominee background checks, committees would have to stand up a plan for an investigation and execute it in short order.___We shouldn___t do that. We should get the FBI background check,___ Welch said.In the end, Democrats say they are going to stay flexible, recognizing some of the strategy is going to be born of organic and unforeseen circumstances in the months ahead.___I don___t think there is an overall answer. (Trump___s) labor nominee is for example very different than his nominee for the Department of Defense and the approaches should be tailored to the individual nominees,___ Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren said. ___Democrats are here to carry out our Constitutional duties to advise and consent. To do that, we need our FBI background checks, an opportunity to meet with the candidates and then to ask them questions in open hearings.___"	8826	
cnn	"Trump transition signs agreement with Justice Department, paving the way for FBI background checks on Trump picks"	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/03/politics/trump-transition-justice-department-agreement/index.html	"CNN¡XDonald Trump___s transition team has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Justice Department, paving the way for the team to seek FBI background checks on the president-elect___s appointees.The agreement, announced by the Trump team on Tuesday, outlines the terms of cooperation between the transition team and the DOJ, marking a significant step in preparation for the incoming administration. It comes after complaints from some Republican senators that the delay in signing the memorandum could hold up the confirmation process for Trump___s nominees.___This allows the transition team to submit names for background checks and security clearances,___ the transition said in a statement.CNNpreviously reportedthat the transition team was using private companies to conduct vetting of potential candidates and not going through traditional FBI screenings for at least some of its picks. It is still unclear how many of Trump___s candidates to lead various agencies and departments will be submitted to the FBI for background checks.Trump and his allies believe the FBI system is slow and plagued with issues that could stymie the president-elect___s plan to quickly begin the work of implementing his agenda, people briefed on the plans said.While some key GOP senators havesuggested opennessto Trump___s Cabinet picks not undergoing full FBI background checks, as has traditionally been done, others have said they___d like to see that process followed.___As I___ve repeatedly said to you, I believe that we need an FBI background check to evaluate the allegations,___ Maine Sen. Susan Collins told CNN___s Manu Raju on Tuesday when asked about Pete Hegseth, Trump___s pick to lead the Department of Defense.North Dakota Sen. Kevin Cramer said he would like to see an FBI background check or ___something similar,___ including a review by ___private entities,___ and also noted that committees have ___a lot of the same investigative authorities___ to vet nominees.Besides clearing the way for possible background checks, the agreement with the Justice Department grants the transition team enhanced access to critical information from federal agencies, allowing for more effective preparation as they take on the challenges and responsibilities of governing.___This agreement with the Department of Justice will ensure President Trump and his team are ready on Day 1 to begin enacting the America First Agenda that an overwhelming majority of our nation supported on Election Day,___ Susie Wiles, Trump___s incoming White House chief of staff, said in a statement.The Trump transition last week signed an agreement with the White House, unlocking key transition briefings and activities after a lengthy delay that stemmed, in part, from the Trump team___s concerns over a mandatory ethics agreement. In signing the agreement, the team made clear it would be doing things its own way, vowing to operate as a ___self-sufficient organization.___The Trump team did submitan ethics planguiding the conduct of its members throughout the transition period, but as CNN reported last week, itdoes not appear to include provisionsfor one key member of the team: the president himself.CNN___s Betsy Klein, Steve Contorno and Arlette Saenz contributed to this report.This story has been updated with additional information."	3328	
cnn	Supreme Court majority appears skeptical of allowing Holocaust survivors to sue Hungary in US courts	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/03/politics/supreme-court-holocaust-hungary-oral-arguments/index.html	"CNN¡XA majority of the Supreme Court on Tuesday appeared skeptical that Holocaust victims and their families are permitted to haul Hungary into American courts to recover property stolen during World War II, with several justices fearing that would open the United States up to a flood of similar litigation from abroad.More than a dozen victims of the Holocaust and their families have been fighting the Republic of Hungary and its national railway for nearly 15 years over whether they may continue their lawsuit in federal courts under a narrow exception to the general prohibition on suing foreign governments in the United States.The US Supreme Court is seen on the first day of a new term in Washington, DC, on October 7, 2024.Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty ImagesRelated articleIn transgender care case, Supreme Court to consider how far equal protection goesHungary ___stole respondents___ property while forcing them onto cattle cars,___ Shay Dvoretzky, representing the families, told the Supreme Court during about 90 minutes of arguments. When Hungary then used the money it received from selling that property to buy equipment in the United States, ___it put into the United States property that had been exchanged for the expropriated property.___The appeal appeared likely to split the Supreme Court along nonideological lines, with both conservatives and liberals concerned about the implications of a decision for the families.Foreign nations generally have what___s known as sovereign immunity that bars parties from suing them in domestic courts. But federal law in the United States includes an exception when a case involves expropriated property that is present in the US. The families say the money Hungary received when it liquidated the property it stole from Jewish families was comingled with other funds and that some portion of that money was then spent in the US.Because of that, the families argue, the exception should apply.But their position drew sharp questioning from Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Brett Kavanaugh, two conservatives who sit at the center of the court and most often wind up with the majority when decisions are handed down.___This is really just throwing out the whole sovereign immunity principles under which the rest of the world operates,___ Roberts said. ___Congress had in mind a much narrower exception than that.___Kavanaugh said he was concerned about the foreign policy implications of a ruling for the families, worrying other nations might reciprocate and make it easier for people to sue the United States.___No other country in the world has an expropriation exception to begin with, right?___ Kavanaugh pressed Dvoretzky. ___It___s a big deal to haul a foreign country into US court.___Several of the court___s liberals also appeared to have reservations with the families___ argument. Justice Sonia Sotomayor recounted a hypothetical about a parent depositing $100 to start a bank account for a newborn and then arguing that same money remained part of the account after a lifetime worth of transactions.___It___s an interesting concept that that $100 that my mother put in that account the day I was born ___ that a piece of it is still there 60 years, or 70 years or 80 years later,___ Sotomayor said. ___It___s a fiction that takes quite an imagination.___Justices Elena Kagan and Samuel Alito, a liberal and conservative, respectively, worried that immunizing foreign countries that simply mix expropriated property into general funds would render the exception Congress approved useless because countries would have an easy path to avoiding scrutiny from federal courts.___Doesn___t this provide a roadmap to any country that wants to expropriate property?___ Kagan asked the attorney representing Hungary, Joshua Glasgow. ___In other words, just sell the property, put it into your national treasury ___ insulate yourself from all claims for all time?___At one point Alito appeared to brush aside Kavanaugh___s concerns about foreign reciprocation, questioning whether Washington would really have to worry about such suits.___Is the United States going around expropriating the property of foreign nationals?___ Alito asked an attorney representing the Biden administration, which has sided with the Hungary in the appeal.photo illustration by Alberto Mier/CNN/Getty ImagesRelated articleHe___s the first known transgender lawyer to argue before Supreme Court. For Chase Strangio, the mission ___is not lost on me___Kavanaugh snapped back, suggesting his concern was that expanding the exception would make the United States vulnerable to suits for historical actions as well.___Justice Alito asked the question about suits against the United States,___ he said. ___I assume those would be backward-looking suits for things that happened long ago.______I would assume so,___ said Sopan Joshi, representing the Biden administration.The victims initially filed their lawsuit in 2010, and the case has been bouncing around federal courts for so long that it previously reached the Supreme Court four years ago. In that instance, the justices ultimately sent the matter back to lower courts for additional review ___ tossing out a federal appeals court ruling for the families in the process.A federal appeals court in Washington, DC, sided with the victims last year, and Hungary appealed to the Supreme Court.A decision in the case, Hungary v. Simon, is expected next year."	5444	
cnn	US officials still working to evict Chinese hackers from major US telecom networks	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/03/politics/chinese-hackers-telecom-networks/index.html	"WashingtonCNN¡XUS officials arestill trying to helpmajor telecom providers evict Chinese government-backed hackers from their networks and don___t have a timeline for when that will be done, officials said Tuesday.___We___re still figuring out just how deeply and where they___ve penetrated, so until we have a complete picture, it___s hard to know the exact parameters of how to kick them off,___ Jeff Greene, a senior official with the US Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), told reporters.___Most [telecom] providers are still working to illuminate the full extent of the PRC activity,___ a senior FBI official added, using an acronym for the Chinese government.The alleged Chinese hackers have gone after the phone communications of senior US political figures such as President-elect Donald Trump and Vice President-elect JD Vance, CNN has previously reported. The hacking effort has roiled Washington and is already shaping up to be a top national security challenge facing the incoming Trump administration.The telecom companies that have worked the longest with federal officials are the furthest along in evicting the hackers, the FBI and CISA officials said. Verizon and AT&T are among the major telecom carriers targeted by the hackers, CNN previously reported.The FBI began investigating the Chinese hacking activity in late spring or early summer this year, the senior FBI official said in the most detailed update yet from the bureau on the espionage campaign.The hackers stole ___a large amount___ of bulk phone records that indicate where, when and who people were communicating with, but not the content of the calls or texts, the senior FBI official said. For a ___limited number___ of people in the US government or involved in politics, the hackers were able to intercept call and text data, the official added.The hackers also ___copied certain information that was subject to US law enforcement requests pursuant to court orders,___ the senior FBI official said. But the portal within telecom providers that allows law enforcement agencies to conduct court-ordered wiretaps was not the primary focus of the hackers, the official said.___The PRC started this campaign with much broader aims,___ the official continued. ___National security and law enforcement intercepts were only one of several targets for these actors___ collection once they got into the networks.___This story has been updated with additional information."	2467	
cnn	Biden acknowledges horrific history of slavery that has connected the US and Angola while projecting optimism for future ties	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/03/politics/joe-biden-angola-speech/index.html	"CNN¡XPresidentJoe Bidenon Tuesday acknowledged how the horrific history of slavery has connected the United States and Angola while delivering a hopeful vision for the future in a major speech from a country that was the point of departure for millions of enslaved Africans.___Our people lie at the heart of a deep and profound connection that forever binds Africa and the United States together. We remember the stolen men and women and children who were brought to our shores in chains and subjected to unimaginable cruelty,___ Biden said in remarks at the National Museum of Slavery, which is built near the chapel where enslaved individuals were forcibly baptized before being sent to America.The museum was built on the property of ¡Ô_lvaro de Carvalho Matoso, one of the largest slave traders on the African coast.Biden told the attendees that he___s proud to be the first president to visit Angola and that he___s ___deeply optimistic___ about the future relationship between the nation and the US.___The story of Angola and the United States holds a lesson for the world. Two nations with a shared history, an evil of human bondage. Two nations on the opposite sides of the Cold War, the defining struggle of the late part of the 20th century. And now, two nations standing shoulder to shoulder working together every day,___ he said. ___It___s a reminder that no nation need be permanently the adversary of another.___Biden___s trip aimed tohighlight US investmentsin Angola and the continent in the face ofdeepening Chinese influence in the region, as Beijing has poured hundreds of billions of dollars into Africa through its Belt and Road Initiative. Biden took a swipe at China___s moves, without calling out the country by name, and argued the US presents a better alternative.___The United States understands how we invest in Africa is as important as how much we invest,___ Biden said.___In too many places, 10 years after the so-called investment was made, workers are still coming home on a dirt road and without electricity, a village without a school, a city without a hospital, a country under crushing debt. We seek a better way, transparent, high standard, open access to investment that protects workers and the rule of law and the environment. It can be done and will be done,___ the president said.Biden delivered his remarks even as he was grappling with an unexpected situation in South Korea, where President Yoon Suk Yeoldeclared martial lawin a surprise late-night address Tuesday. The US is closely monitoring the situation and is in touch with the South Korean government, and Biden told reporters after his remarks that he would be getting a full briefing soon.The president also reflected on a theme that he has mentioned throughout this presidency: his belief that it___s the United States___ duty to both acknowledge and face its history.___While history can be hidden, it cannot and should not be erased. It should be faced. It___s our duty to face our history. The good, the bad and the ugly. The whole truth. That___s what great nations do,___ he said.Biden___s speech comes during what likely could be his last trip abroad as president and as he seeks to deepen relationships with Angola and other African nations at a time when China has made significant inroads in the continent with hundreds of billions of dollars of infrastructure investments, far outpacing the US.During his remarks, Biden touted US efforts to expand its relationships across Africa, including billions of dollars in investments in Angola. He also announced over $1 billion in new US humanitarian assistance for Africans who have been displaced byhistoric droughtsacross the continent.___But we know African leaders and citizens are seeking more than just aid. You seek investment. So, the United States is expanding its relationships all across Africa,___ Biden said, adding later: ___Moving from patrons to partners.___Biden on Monday met briefly with Wanda Tucker, who is a descendant of William Tucker, the first enslaved child born in the United States. William Tucker___s parents, Anthony and Isabella, were taken on a Portuguese ship from Angola to colonial Virginia in 1619. Wanda Tucker now serves as the faculty chair of psychology, philosophy and religious studies at Rio Salado College in Arizona.___It was the beginning of slavery in the United States. Cruel. Brutal. Dehumanizing. Our nation___s original sin. Original sin. One that___s haunted America and cast a long shadow ever since,___ Biden said during his Tuesday remarks as he honored the Tucker family. ___Here with us today are three Americans who are direct descendants of Anthony and Isabella, those first enslaved ___ Africans in America.___Ahead of his remarks, the president also met with Angolan leaders, including young people and members of civil society, at the museum.Biden started his day with a bilateral meeting with Angolan President Jo¡Ô¢Go Manuel Gon¡Ô_alves Louren¡Ô_o at the presidential palace in Luanda.The two men discussed trade and infrastructure, including the US and Europe___s investment in the Lobito Corridor, an unfinished 800-mile railway project meant to facilitate the transfer of critical minerals from interior countries to western ports for exports. They also discussed mutual security interests as Angola has played a key mediating role in the conflict in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo.But Biden___s three-day trip to Angola, the first for a sitting US president, has at times been overshadowed by the president___sdecision to pardon his son Hunter Biden, a move thatdrew swift backlashfrom members of his own Democratic Party on Capitol Hill. The president has not responded to reporters___ questions relating to the pardon during the trip."	5774	
cnn	Democrats left fuming over Biden¡¦s decision to pardon his son ¡X after he repeatedly said he wouldn¡¦t	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/02/politics/biden-allies-disappointed-pardon/index.html	"CNN¡XPresidentJoe Biden¡¦s decision topardon his sonhas left some Democrats fuming over his choice to repeatedly and unequivocally claim that he would never take that step, even though a pardon long appeared possible to Hunter Biden¡¦s legal team.Multiple officials who recently worked for Joe Biden said they never believed the president or White House aides speaking on his behalf when they insisted in recent months that a pardon for Hunter Biden was off the table.¡§Anyone who was even close to the top knew that he was probably going to do this. Why did we pretend otherwise?¡¨ a former senior West Wing aide said.A different former senior White House official said they and others around them had felt ¡§certain¡¨ the president would ultimately pardon his son, while another ex-administration official put it this way: ¡§It was extremely, painfully obvious that this was where things would end up.¡¨President Joe Biden, wearing a Team USA jacket and walking with his son Hunter Biden, heads toward Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, July 26, 2024.Susan Walsh/APanalysisJoe Biden¡¦s pardon reversal reflects family loyalty over legacyBut even as some of Joe Biden¡¦s closest allies were bewildered by the president¡¦s eleventh-hour pardon, Hunter Biden and his lawyers long believed that one was possible, multiple sources told CNN. That comes despite the White House saying that a final decision on the pardon was reached only this weekend.The president¡¦s Sunday evening move to announce the pardon came after he spent time with his family, including Hunter, in Nantucket, Massachusetts, over the Thanksgiving holiday and has led lawmakers in Biden¡¦s own party to criticize him. Press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said as recently as November 7 that a pardon for Hunter Biden was not being considered.Joe Biden¡¦s decision to pardon his son presented a delicate balancing act for the president, who has long beenfiercely loyal to his family, even when it comes at his own personal or political detriment.Hunter Biden wasconvicted by a juryin June of illegally buying and possessing a gun as a drug user, after a gut-wrenching trial that delved into hisdrug abuseandfamily dysfunction. He thenpleaded guiltyin September to nine tax offenses, stemming from $1.4 million in taxes that he didn¡¦t pay whilespending lavishlyon escorts, strippers, cars and drugs.Sources familiar with Hunter Biden¡¦s legal strategy said he would not have agreed to plead guilty in September to all nine charges in the federal tax case ¡X exposing himself to the possibility of 17 years in prison and more than $1 million in fines ¡X without the expectation of clemency.The legal pressure on Hunter Biden mounted as his sentencing dates in December neared. People close to the president¡¦s son said they didn¡¦t want him to have to undergo sentencing.In the days before the pardon was issued, Hunter Biden¡¦s attorneys circulated a 50-page document outlining the six-year investigation of the president¡¦s son and blamingDonald Trumpand Republican allies for being the driving force behind his legal problems.President Joe Biden speaks on the South Lawn of the White House on December 1, in Washington, DC.Nathan Posner/Anadolu/Getty ImagesanalysisBiden¡¦s pardon of his son pours fuel on Trump¡¦s claims of politicized justiceThough controversial, Joe Biden¡¦s move to pardon a close family member or associate is not unheard of. Presidents from both parties have wielded their pardon power in ways that have raised eyebrows ¡X though perhaps none did so after so strongly saying they would not, as Biden did.Trumppardoned Charles Kushner, his daughter¡¦s father-in-law, on his last month in office. President Bill Clinton pardoned his half-brother Roger, who had pleaded guilty to a drug charge, on his last day in office.Biden¡¦s public reversal this weekend and the issuance of a sweeping ¡§full and unconditional¡¨ pardon for his son has some Democrats wondering why he had maintained that he wouldn¡¦t take a course of action that had seemed simply inevitable to so many around the president.¡§As a father, I get it,¡¨ Rep. Greg Landsman, an Ohio Democrat, said on X. ¡§But as someone who wants people to believe in public service again, it¡¦s a setback.¡¨Another Democrat, Colorado Sen. Michael Bennet, said Biden¡¦s decision placed ¡§personal interest ahead of duty and further erodes Americans¡¦ faith that the justice system is fair and equal for all.¡¨Democratic Rep. Greg Stanton of Arizona said that while he respects the president, ¡§I think he got this one wrong.¡¨¡§This wasn¡¦t a politically-motivated prosecution,¡¨ Stanton said on X. ¡§Hunter committed felonies, and was convicted by a jury of his peers.¡¨One former administration official suggested the blowback Monday would have been less intense had Biden not been adamant for months that he wasn¡¦t seeking a pardon for his son.¡§I wonder if there was a way to just be less righteous about it, and more like: ¡¥We¡¦re not spending our time thinking about that,¡¦¡¨ the former administration official said.President Joe Biden and his son Hunter Biden disembark from Air Force One in Syracuse, New York, on February 4, 2023.Elizabeth Frantz/ReutersanalysisBiden¡¦s pardon of his son makes presidential historyThe ex-senior West Wing aide echoed that sentiment, saying there were multiple ways Biden could have left the door open to a pardon rather than ruling out its possibility altogether.¡§Could he have been super honest?¡¨ they asked. ¡§Like, ¡¥Hey, I don¡¦t know, I can¡¦t answer that right now.¡¦¡¨Jean-Pierre, who on more than one occasion had told reporters that Biden would not pardon his son, admitted Monday that Trump¡¦s victory in last month¡¦s election had been a factor.¡§It is a no ¡X I can answer that, it¡¦s a no,¡¨ Jean-Pierre told reporters on Air Force One, when asked whether Biden would have pardoned his son if Vice President Kamala Harris had won the election.But she then proceeded to insist she was not interested in discussing an event that did not happen: ¡§I can speak to where we are today, and so I can¡¦t speak to hypotheticals here. Where we are today, the president made this decision over the weekend.¡¨"	6153	
cnn	"Biden trying to ¡¥put Ukraine in the strongest possible position¡¦ with new aid package, White House says"	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/03/politics/biden-ukraine-aid-package/index.html	"CNN¡XThe Biden administration is rushing assistance to Ukraine in an effort to put Kyiv ___in the strongest possible position___ as Russia steps up its attacks and President Joe Biden prepares to leave office in less than two months.___Today, we are announcing a $725 million security assistance package for Ukraine, which includes substantial quantities of artillery, rockets, and air defense capabilities,___ national security adviser Jake Sullivan wrote in a statement. ___The President has directed the Department of Defense to deliver the materiel to Ukraine rapidly ___ to ensure that Ukraine has the equipment it needs to defend itself.___Sullivan wrote that, between December and mid-January, ___we will deliver hundreds of thousands of additional artillery rounds, thousands of additional rockets, and other critical capabilities to help Ukraine defend its freedom and independence.___The statement twice refers to putting ___Ukrainian forces in the strongest possible position___ before Biden___s term ends.Secretary of State Antony Blinken first made the announcement earlier Monday. The new tranche of military assistance includes Stinger missiles, ammunition forHigh Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems (HIMARS)and anti-personnel landmines.Blinken arrived in Brussels on Tuesday morning for his last meeting of the NATO foreign ministers. The top US diplomat said his country was determined to support Ukraine and accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of ___once again weaponizing winter, trying to freeze people out of their homes.___In a speech earlier Tuesday, NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte highlighted how Ukraine is entering ___another crucial winter,___ while aggression from Russia and Putin show ___no sign of abating.______Putin is not interested in peace. He is pressing on, trying to take more territory because he thinks he can break Ukraine___s resolve and ours,___ Rutte said. ___But he is wrong. Ukraine has a right to defend itself, and we have a duty to help them.___The provision of the military aid is part of a larger strategy to bolster Ukraine, which has been complemented by shifts in policies on the provision of antipersonnel land mines and Kyiv___s use of US-provided long-range weapons.Still,two US officials and three defense officials told CNNlast week that the Pentagon is unlikely to use all of the billions of dollars authorized by Congress toarm Ukrainebefore Biden leaves office.The administration has fewer than two months left to use nearly $7 billion, part of a larger package authorized by Congress earlier this year to help Ukraine in the war with Russia. The funding allows the Defense Department to draw from its own stockpiles to send weapons, but shortages have limited how much the US can send to Kyiv in recent months.For months, the US has run into the limits of its ability to replenish its own weapons inventories, which limited what the Biden administration has been able to send Ukraine. The US has been growing its capacity to produce critical munitions, such as 155mm artillery shells, since virtually the beginning of the war nearly three years ago, but the ramp up in production is not yet complete.State Department officials briefed Congress in November that the administration is still working to allocate the remaining funds, according to a congressional source familiar with the matter.CNN___s Duarte Mendon¡Ô_a, Natasha Bertrand, Oren Liebermann, Katie Bo Lillis and Alex Marquardt contributed to this report."	3484	
cnn	26 states have passed laws restricting gender-affirming care for trans youth	https://www.cnn.com/politics/state-ban-gender-affirming-care-transgender-dg/index.html	"CNN¡XTwenty-six states have passed bans on gender-affirming health care for transgender children and teenagers, according to a CNN analysis of data from theMovement Advancement Project,a nonprofit think tank that advocates for LGBTQ rights. An estimated 40% of transgender youth ages 13 to 17 live in these states, according to MAP and The Williams Institute.These laws will be in the spotlight as the US Supreme Court hears oral arguments on December 4 in a case thatchallenges Tennessee___s ban on transgender carefor minors.Gender-affirming careincludes medically necessary, evidence-based care that uses a multidisciplinary approach to help a person transition from their assigned gender ___ the one the person was designated at birth ___ to their affirmed gender, the gender by which one wants to be known.The case could havewide-reaching implicationsfor transgender youth living in states that have passed similar laws. After the first gender-affirming care ban for minors became law in 2021, a flurry of states passed similar measures.The Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in US v. Skrmetti on December 4, 2024 in Washington, DC.Kevin Mohatt/Reuters/FileRelated articleHow a Supreme Court decision on health care bans for transgender youth could impact trans people nationwideGender-affirming care was a particularly hot-button topic for lawmakers on both sides of the issue in 2023. While19 states passed laws banning gender-affirming care for minorslast year, 11 states and the District of Columbia passed ___shield___ laws protecting access to care. The bans varied in scope with some states making it a felony crime to provide certain gender-affirming care to minors, while others prohibited the use of public funds.So far this year, Ohio, Wyoming, South Carolina and New Hampshire joined the list of states banning gender-affirming care for transgender youth. Maine and Rhode Island, on the other hand, passed laws protecting it.Not all laws banning gender-affirming care are currently being enforced. A legal challenge inArkansashas halted the state___s ban while a temporary block is in effect inMontana.New Hampshire___s banon surgical care for minors will be enforced starting January 1, 2025 (though studies have shown gender-affirming surgeries on transgender minorsare rare in the United States). While Arizona has a 2022 law on the books banning surgical care for transgender minors, DemocraticGov. Katie Hobbssigned an executive orderin 2023 ensuring access to gender-affirming health care."	2515	
cnn	¡¥2000 Mules¡¦ creator admits some of film¡¦s claims are flawed	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/02/politics/2000-mules-creator-admits-some-of-films-claims-are-flawed/index.html	"CNN¡XThe creator of a widely debunked movie that became a central pillar in the false narrative that the 2020 election was stolen has admitted that some of the film¡¦s claims are flawed.The movie, ¡§2,000 Mules¡¨ by far-right activist Dinesh D¡¦Souza, promoted a false conspiracy theory that vote drop boxes were the scene of mass widespread voter fraud in the 2020 election ¡V alleging that so-called ¡§mules¡¨ were stuffing voter drop boxes with ballots.Themovie premiered at Mar-a-Lagoin 2022 and was widely embraced across the MAGA universe as a way to demonize the use of ballot drop boxes, and perpetuate the false claim of voter fraud. Laterin 2022 armed men stalkedvoters at drop boxes in Arizona.In 2022, a Georgia man featured in the film depositing his ballotfiled a lawsuitalleging that bogus claims in the movie had severely damaged his reputation and led to threats of violence against him and his family.In a statement  D¡¦Souzaposted on X last week, heapologized to the man, Mark Andrews.In the film, Andrews was featured on video with his face blurred while depositing his ballot, along with those belonging to his family, into a drop box in what the film purported was a ¡§mule¡¨ operation.¡§What you are seeing is a crime,¡¨ a voiceover from D¡¦Souza declared. ¡§These are fraudulent votes.¡¨¡§I know that the film and my book create the impression that these individuals were mules that had been identified as suspected ballot harvesters,¡¨ D¡¦Souza said in a statement posted on social media last week.¡§I owe this individual, Mark Andrews, an apology. I now understand that the surveillance videos used in the film were characterized on the basis of inaccurate information provided to me and my team.¡¨D¡¦Souza¡¦s apology came a few months after right-wing talk radio network owner Salem Media Group,issued a public apologyto Andrews and said it would stop distributing the film.¡§It was never our intent that the publication of the 2000 Mules film and book would harm Mr. Andrews,¡¨ Salem said in a statement released in May. ¡§We apologize for the hurt the inclusion of Mr. Andrews¡¦ image in the movie, book, and promotional materials have caused Mr. Andrews and his family.¡¨¡§We have removed the film from Salem¡¦s platforms, and there will be no future distribution of the film or the book by Salem,¡¨ the right-wing company added.The apology from Salem came as part of a larger settlement to the lawsuit filed by Andrews.Dinesh D'Souza attends the DC premiere of his film, ""Death of a Nation,"" at E Street Cinema on August 1, 2018 in Washington, DC.Shannon Finney/Getty Images North America/Getty ImagesIn his statement posted last week, D¡¦Souza said, ¡§I make this apology not under the terms of a settlement agreement or other duress, but because it is the right thing to do, given what we have now learned.¡¨D¡¦Souza pleaded guilty to violating federal campaign finance laws in 2014. In 2018, then-President Donald Trump granted him a full pardon.Despite the apology, D¡¦Souza claimed in the statement that he stands by other assertions made in the film.D¡¦Souza said the error involving Andrews was due to data the filmmakers received from True the Vote, a so-called ¡§election integrity¡¨ group thathas trafficked in election conspiracy theories.The movie purported to use cell phone geolocation data gathered by True the Vote to show that so-called mules repeatedly visited voter drop boxes.Those claims have beenthoroughly debunkedby election and cyber experts. Former US Attorney General William Barr referenced the movie when he told the House select committee that investigated the January 6, 2021, attack on the US Capitol that he doesn¡¦t believe the election was stolen.¡§I haven¡¦t seen anything since the election that changes my mind on that, including the_¡¥2,000 Mules¡¦_movie,¡¨ Barrsaidin his testimony.True the Vote also provided data to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation in 2021, but the agency concluded that there wasn¡¦t ¡§any other kind of evidence¡¨ that tied the provided cell phone and geolocation data to ballot harvesting.In a statement responding to D¡¦Souza, True the Vote maintained the central, but widely debunked, claims made in the movie are accurate.The group disputed D¡¦Souza¡¦s suggestion that it was to blame for implicating Andrews."	4257	
cnn	Army general who oversaw Afghanistan withdrawal promoted to four-star officer after GOP senator drops hold	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/02/politics/chris-donahue-general-promoted-afghanistan-withdrawal/index.html	"CNN¡XAn Army general who oversaw theUS withdrawal from Afghanistanwas promoted to a four-star officer after a Republican senator dropped a hold on his nomination, according to a Senate aide.The Senate on Monday confirmed Lt. Gen. Chris Donahue to be the commander of US Army Europe-Africa by unanimous consent, meaning no senator objected to his approval. Sen. Markwayne Mullin, a Republican from Oklahoma, had previouslyblocked the promotion, despite the Senate Armed Services Committee advancing 984 other military promotions.Donahue boards a C-17 cargo plane at the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul, Afghanistan.Master Sgt. Alexander Burnett/US ArmyIt was not immediately clear why Mullin dropped his hold, and CNN is reaching out to Mullin___s office for comment.Donahue, who currently serves as the commander of the 18th Airborne Corps at Fort Liberty in North Carolina, oversaw the final withdrawal from Afghanistan and was the last US soldier on the ground at Kabul___s international airport.A night vision picture of Donahue boarding a cargo flight out of the airport became a symbolic image of the end of a 20-year war and a chaotic withdrawal that saw the deaths of 13 US troops in a suicide bombing.In addition to his current position as the commander of a storied military corps, Donahue has also been critical in the US effort to support Ukraine, helping to establish the Security Assistance Group-Ukraine. The organization was established in November 2022 as a more long-term extension of the work of 18th Airborne Corps, which deployed to Europe to reinforce NATO___s eastern flank after Russia invaded Ukraine.In a military career that has spanned more than three decades since his graduation from West Point, Donahue has deployed 20 times, including time in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, North Africa and Eastern Europe, according to his Army biography.Mullin was one of the most vocal Republicans calling for accountability after the Abbey Gate bombing that killed 13 US service members during the final days of the evacuation from Afghanistan. On the third anniversary of the bombing, Mullin said that ___not one person has been held accountable for the disaster___ and explicitly named Donahue. He also named former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley, who has repeatedly come under attack from President-elect Donald Trump, with whom he had a contentious relationship.Donahue had the very public and vocal backing of a number of former Defense Department officials, including Mark Esper, who served as Trump___s Defense secretary for 16 months during his first term. Espersaid on social mediathat Donahue was a ___great pick___ and had ___tremendous experience.___Calling for the hold to be lifted, Esper said, ___Responsibility for the disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan in 2021 rests with the White House, not the Defense Dept, and certainly not with the uniformed leaders who faithfully executed Pres Biden___s misbegotten decisions.___Retired Gen. Tony Thomas, who led US Special Operations Command,blasted the hold on social media, saying it was an ___absolute disgrace,___ while calling Donahue ___the finest officer I ever served with.___This story has been updated with additional details."	3247	
cnn	Some key GOP senators open to no FBI background checks on Trump picks	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/02/politics/gop-senators-background-checks-trump-nominees/index.html	"CNN¡XKey Republican senators promised on Monday that President-elect Donald Trump___spick to lead the FBI,Kash Patel, will be vetted through the confirmation process.At the same time, two incoming committee chairs suggested openness to Patel and Trump___s other nominees not undergoing full FBI background checks as has traditionally been done.CNNhas reportedthat Trump___s transition team is___bypassing traditional FBI background checks for at least some of his Cabinet picks. Trump and his allies believe the FBI system is slow and plagued with issues that could stymie the president-elect___s plan to quickly begin the work of implementing his agenda, people briefed on the plans said.___My job is to make sure that the nominees have a thorough, fair process, and ultimately, you know, our members will decide,___ said Sen John Thune, the incoming Senate Majority Leader, when asked if he has any concerns about Patel.Thune said, ___historically, the best place to get that done has been through the FBI,___ but he acknowledged Trump has some ___alternatives___ in mind for background checks and the committee chairs will have to trust that nominees before them have been thoroughly examined.Republican Sen. Michael Crapo, who will chair the Senate Finance Committee that will hold confirmation hearings for several positions, including Robert F. Kennedy Jr. to be the Department of Health and Human Services secretary, said he will accept whatever Trump wants.___No, I___ll let that be a decision that President Trump makes,___ he said when asked if he will insist on background checks performed by the FBI. ___My position is what President Trump decides to do is what I will support.___It___s unclear how many Republican senators would be open to not having FBI background checks for nominees, and other key senators have already affirmed the importance of background checks.Asked on Monday if she is concerned about new allegations that have emerged publicly about Trump___s pick for Defense secretary, Pete Hegseth, GOP Sen. Susan Collins, a key potential swing vote, said, ___I haven___t read about them, but it___s why we need FBI background check on nominees, so that we can sort out issues like that.The New Yorkerreported Sunday that Hegseth was pushed out as the head of two veterans___ advocacy organizations amid internal allegations of mismanagement and personal misconduct. It comes on the heels ofreports detailing a sexual assault allegationfrom 2017, which Hegseth has denied and in which no charges were filed.Asked by CNN for comment about the magazine___s reporting, a Hegseth adviser said, ___We___re not going to comment on outlandish claims laundered through the New Yorker by a petty and jealous disgruntled former associate of Mr. Hegseth___s. Get back to us when you try your first attempt at actual journalism.___Hegseth met with around a dozen Senate Republicans in the Capitol on Monday evening, including Sens. Mike Lee, Bill Hagerty, Rick Scott, Ted Cruz and Cynthia Lummis.Speaking to reporters, Lummis dismissed concerns about Hegseth___s alleged actions, saying that soldiers can be ___wild childs.______They___re throwing disparaging remarks at someone who has earned a great deal of credibility,___ she said. ___Are soldiers sometimes wild childs? Yeah, that can happen, but it is very clear that this guy is the guy who, at a time when Americans are losing confidence in their own military and our ability to project strength around the world, that Pete Hegseth is the answer to that concern.___Cruz would not rule out voting for a nominee who hasn___t received an FBI background check.When he was first asked about background checks on the nominees, Cruz told reporters, ___Look, there will be background checks on nominees and that that___s always been an important part of the process,___ but when pressed on if he needs to see FBI background checks, the Texas Republican said, ___We___re going to let each committee resolve those issues.___Asked if he___d be willing to vote on a nominee who hasn___t received an FBI background check, Cruz repeated, ___As I said, that___s going to be for each committee to decide.___GOP Sen. Roger Wicker, who will chair the Senate Armed Services Committee that will hold confirmation hearings for Hegseth to be Secretary of Defense, said ___I would prefer a full background check___ but stopped short of saying he would insist on it.___I haven___t said that,___ he responded to CNN."	4461	
cnn	Trump to travel to Paris for Notre Dame Cathedral reopening	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/02/politics/trump-travel-paris-notre-dame-cathedral/index.html	"CNN¡XPresident-electDonald Trumpis planning to visit Paris later this week to attend the reopening of Notre Dame Cathedral on December 7, his first overseas trip since his election in November to a second term in office.Trump___s team has been in discussions for days with French President Emmanuel Macron___s office regarding the visit, and the US president-elect was invited by the French government to attend the reopening, sources familiar with the plans told CNN.___President Emmanuel Macron has done a wonderful job ensuring that Notre Dame has been restored to its full level of glory, and even more so,___ Trump posted on his Truth Social platform Monday. ___It will be a very special day for all!___Trump and Macron worked together closely throughout the first Trump administration, with their relationship being described as somewhat of a ___bromance,___ despite at times appearing openly hostile toward one another.Macron was the first foreign leader to congratulate Trump after he became just the second US president to win a nonconsecutive term, writing on X: ___Congratulations, President@realDonaldTrump. Ready to work together as we did for four years. With your convictions and mine. With respect and ambition. For more peace and prosperity.___ Later that evening, Trump and Macron spoke by phone, Macron___s office said.As soon as the invitation was received, Trump told his team he wanted to attend as he has long held a fascination with Notre Dame, which was severely damaged by a fire in 2019. At the time, Trump had watched footage of the fire burning while aboard Air Force One, commenting on social media: ___So horrible to watch the massive fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. Perhaps flying water tankers could be used to put it out. Must act quickly!___The reopening ceremony this weekend is expected to draw some 50 heads of state and government, Paris___ Police Chief Laurent Nuneztold The Associated Press.CNN recently reportedthat Macron was planning to invite Trump and Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk, who the president-elect hastapped for a rolein his administration, to Paris for a summit on artificial intelligence in early February.The trip will take place afterTrump on Saturday announcedhe had selected his son-in-law Jared Kushner___s father, real estate developer Charles Kushner, to serve as the next US ambassador to France. Charles Kushner waspardoned by Trump in 2020after pleading guilty in 2005 to 16 counts of tax evasion, one count of retaliating against a federal witness and another count of lying to the Federal Election Commission. He was sentenced to two years in prison.Trump___s Paris visit also comes just days after another world leader, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, flew to Florida anddined with himat Mar-a-Lago. Trudeau was the first G7 leader to meet with Trump in person since Election Day.This story has been updated with additional details."	2917	
cnn	Jeffries faces leadership test as Democrats fight for committee posts to battle Trump	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/02/politics/jeffries-democrats-fight-key-committee-gavels/index.html	"CNN¡XHouse Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries is facing his first big leadership test in the new Trump era as congressional Democrats push for a shakeup in their party___s approach to countering the incoming president.A handful of House Democrats are taking the rare step of challenging older ___ and, in their words, ineffective ___ colleagues for coveted committee leadership positions as they look to start a new chapter of Democratic resistance when President-elect Donald Trump takes office and Republicans take control of both chambers of Congress.The Democrat vs. Democrat clash is, in part, a fight over the party___s future messengers as it looks to rebuild after crushing losses in 2024. A number of Democrats who were once willing to wait their turn on the leadership ladder have suddenly lost their patience. After watching President Joe Biden wait months to step aside only to hand over the White House to Trump, those Democrats are now more eager to challenge their party___s conventions ___ including the sacrosanct principle of seniority in leadership.In public, Jeffries, a reserved leader who is known for being selective about when he puts his thumb on the scale, has not weighed in on whether he would back Rep. Jamie Raskin___s challenge to Rep. Jerry Nadler, the long-serving top Democrat on the influential House Judiciary Committee.But several Democrats at Jeffries___ leadership table have privately been egging on Raskin, who is 16 years___ Nadler___s junior, as they hunt for the best attack dog in Trump___s Washington, according to four people familiar with the discussions. Raskin, who currently holds the top Democratic spot on the House___s Oversight panel, is choosing to instead run for Judiciary because he considers it the ___the headquarters of Congressional opposition to authoritarianism.______Our unified Caucus must strategize and organize like never before___every single one of us working together every single day until we win the House back in 2026 and then beyond that,___ Raskin wrote in a letter to fellow Democrats on Monday.From left, Reps. Jared Huffman and Jamie Raskin leave the office of House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries in the US Capitol on Thursday, July 11.Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call/Getty ImagesJeffries, who served on the Judiciary panel since coming to Congress, has spoken with both Nadler and Raskin, but sources would not divulge what was said.Several Democratic members told CNN, speaking on condition of anonymity, that Raskin, a close confidant of leadership through the years, would not have run if Jeffries had urged him against it, though people close to Nadler dispute this.Raskin and Nadler, who are longtime friends, have also spoken multiple times and even met in person in the lead-up to Raskin___s announcement on Monday.It___s not the only rank-and-file rebellion that___s taking place against the Democrats ___old guard.___ Sixty-year-old Rep. Jared Huffman recently announced he would challenge 76-year-old Raul Grijalva, who___s been battling cancer, for the party___s top spot on the Natural Resources committee. (Grijalva then announced he wouldn___t run.) Two other Democrats are vying to replace Rep. David Scott, who is 79, at the House Agriculture Committee.Democratic Rep. Dean Phillips, whose longshot primary challenge to Biden quickly failed, praised his colleagues for taking on committee leadership.___As a proponent of competition over coronations and talent over tenure, I___m pleased my colleagues are taking some long-overdue steps in that direction,___ Phillips told CNN, even though he is retiring and can___t vote for the new positions.The intra-party challenges also mark a deeper crossroads House Democrats have arrived at over how to take on Trump___s key allies, like House Judiciary Chair Jim Jordan and House Oversight James Comer, whose panels co-led a failed impeachment inquiry into Biden and have served as ground zero for high-profile partisan attacks on the Biden White House.Democrats on the Judiciary panel will have to take on Jordan___s crusade against what Republicans describe as the ___weaponization___ of the federal government, while Oversight committee Democrats will be the counter against Comer___s push to carry out Trump___s desire to cut significant parts of the federal government.Rep. Jerry Nadler speaks during a hearing on Capitol Hill on November 20 in Washington, DC.Tasos Katopodis/Getty ImagesBoth Nadler and Raskin are no stranger to public fights with their Republican counterparts but have shown their resistance takes different forms. In the 11-month impeachment inquiry into Biden that Republicans conducted this Congress, Raskin continually got in sparring matches with Comer in hearings and became a regular fixture on cable news.___Jamie Raskin made mincemeat out of Comer over and over again in the 118th Congress. If that is any indication of how he would do leading the Judiciary Committee, it___s going to be something that a lot of Democrats want to see,___ Huffman, who is supporting Raskin, told CNN.Nadler ___ who led both impeachments against Trump and has spent seven years as top Democrat on the panel ___ has his own loyalties within the caucus. He___s revered by many progressives and has already endured a number of cutthroat campaigns, including a nasty congressional primary against a fellow Democratic chairman just two years ago.Throughout the impeachment investigation, Jeffries appeared to defer to committee Democrats at every turn and only got involved when needed. Behind the scenes, Democrats were constantly deliberating when to respond to Republican claims and when doing so would only amplify the GOP efforts.By challenging Nadler, Raskin___s vacancy on Oversight offers an opportunity for a deep bench to throw their hats in the ring. Democratic Reps. Stephen Lynch and Gerry Connolly, who have both run for the top post before, are considering trying again, sources tell CNN.But they will have to contend with younger members like Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who is also weighing whether to leapfrog the seniority on the committee and lead a new era of pushback against Republicans."	6155	
cnn	US left facing a difficult situation in Syria as rebels make massive advances against Assad regime	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/02/politics/us-syria-diplomatic-situation/index.html	"WashingtonCNN¡XThe surpriseoffensive on Aleppo by Syrian rebel groupshas left the US in the difficult position of not fully supporting either side while also maintaining aforce postureof nearly 1,000 troops in Syria as part of the ongoing mission to fight ISIS.Maj. Gen. Pat Ryder, the Pentagon press secretary, on Monday distanced the US from the offensive last week, in which rebel groups quickly advanced on and took Aleppo,Syria___ssecond-largest city, for the first time in years.___Let me be clear that the US is in no way involved in the operations you see playing out in and around Aleppo in northwestern Syria, which as you know are being led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, a designated terrorist organization,___ he said in reference to a group known as HTS, adding that the US ___is urging de-escalation.___The dilemma for the US was further put into focus by national security adviser Jake Sullivan, who told CNN on Sunday that HTS is a ___a terrorist organization designated by the United States. So, we have real concerns about the designs and objectives of that organization.___Smoke billows in the distance as damaged cars are seen at the site of Syrian regime airstrikes targeting opposition fighters in Aleppo, in northern Syria, on November 30, 2024.Aaref Watad/AFP/Getty ImagesRelated articleSyrian and Russian jets step up strikes on rebels after opposition seizes much of Aleppo___At the same time, of course, we don___t cry over the fact that the Assad government, backed by Russia, Iran and Hezbollah, are facing certain kinds of pressure,___ Sullivan added. ___So, it___s a complicated situation. It___s one we___re monitoring closely, and we___re staying in close touch with regional partners about it.___The founder of HTS, Abu Mohammad al-Jolani, previously started a different group, an al Qaeda Syrian affiliate called Jabhat al-Nusra. And despite efforts by HTS to distance itself from al Qaeda, the US designated the group a terror organization in 2018, saying it evolved from the original group, Jabhat al-Nusrah.___As you know, they are formerly known as ___Nusrah Front,___ an al Qaeda affiliate in Syria, but bottom line is: still a designated terrorist organization,___ Ryder said Monday of HTS.Meanwhile, State Department spokesperson Matthew Miller said later Monday that the US would not lift its sanctions on President Bashar al-Assad___s regime, which he said has shown ___no change in behavior.___ The UShas applied more sanctionsto the regime since 2011, when uprisings in the country began, to cut off needed resources as a result of the government___s violence against civilians and ___to pressure the Syrian regime to allow for a democratic transition as the Syrian people demand,___ according to the State Department.Amid the renewed unrest in the country, roughly 900 US service members are deployed in Syria as part of the anti-ISIS mission. And while the operations in Aleppo are on the other side of the country from where US forces are operating, the instability ___ and primarily, Russia___s response in assisting the Assad government ___ has resulted in the US military communicating with Moscow to prevent ___miscalculation.___In response to the surprise advance on Aleppo, Russia ___ a main supporter of the Syrian regime ___ launched an aerial offensive against armed opposition forces in the Aleppo and Idlib provinces. Ryder said Monday that the US general in charge of the coalition mission to defeat ISIS in Iraq and Syria has now spoken with Russian officials on a preestablished hotline.Fighters fire toward Syrian Army troops in the Al-Rashidin District on the outskirts of Aleppo on November 29.Bakr Alkasem/AFP/Getty ImagesRelated articleRebel groups have taken Syria___s second-biggest city. Here___s who they are___My understanding is that the CJTF-OIR commander has used the hotline that we have with Russia to ensure that we have open lines of communication, given the fact that we do have forces operating in fairly close proximity ___ as it relates geographically ___ to Syria,___ Ryder said Monday. ___I won___t go into details about those conversations, other than we have that communication mechanism to prevent potential miscalculation.___Meanwhile, US and coalition forces in the country are coming under fire as they have for nearly the last year.Asked about reports of attacks over the last 24 hours, Ryder said there was a ___rocket attack against one of our facilities in Syria,___ though no US personnel were injured and no infrastructure damage was reported. And on Friday, he said, US forces conducted a ___self-defense strike near MSS Euphrates,___ taking out a potential threat to the US base. There were also no injuries or infrastructure damage reported in that incident.Ryder said that was ___completely unrelated to the ongoing situation in northwestern Syria.___ He added that there have not yet been any US force posture changes in Syria.CNN___s Jennifer Hansler and Michael Conte contributed to this report."	4994	
cnn	Capitol Police arrest Democratic staffer who says he forgot he was carrying ammunition in his bag	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/02/politics/democratic-staffer-ammunition-arrest/index.html	"CNN¡XUS Capitol Police arrested a Democratic staffer on Monday morning after he entered a House office building with four ammunition magazines and 11 rounds of ammunition, according to a statement provided to CNN.The staffer, Michael Hopkins, told the officers that he forgot the ammunition was in the bag, according to the statement. The ammunition was first picked up through the screening process and confirmed through a hand search of the bag.Hopkins, the communications director for New York Democratic Rep. Joe Morelle, was arrested and is facing charges for unlawful possession of ammunition, including one charge for possession of a high-capacity magazine.CNN has reached out to Morelle___s office for comment."	717	
cnn	Supreme Court wrestles with FDA¡¦s attempt to curb access to flavored vapes	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/02/politics/supreme-court-fda-flavored-vaping/index.html	"CNN¡XThe Supreme Court on Monday pressed the Food and Drug Administration on whether it followed the law in its effort to keepflavored e-cigarettes off shelves, weighing a lawsuit from a multibillion-dollar industry that has come under scrutiny because its products are popular with school-aged children.Protesters of Kentucky Senate Bill SB150, known as the Transgender Health Bill, cheer on speakers during a rally on the lawn of the Kentucky Capitol in Frankfort on March 29, 2023.Timothy D. Easley/APRelated articleSupreme Court___s transgender care fight creates conservative ___reckoning___ over parental rightsAfter more than an hour of oral arguments, the agency appeared to have support from the court___s three-member liberal bloc and, possibly, a few of its conservatives as well ___ at least for a limited outcome that could give the incoming Trump administration a chance to review the FDA___s actions to block flavored vaping products.Public health advocates have been sounding the alarm in recent years about a spike in vaping among young Americans. The FDA reports that 19% of high school students and 4.7% of middle school students vaped in 2020 ___ a far higher share than students who smoked.At issue were a series of denials during the first year of the Biden administration for vaping products that officials said are geared toward minors with flavors like ___Pink Lemonade,___ ___Rainbow Road___ and ___Jimmy the Juice Man Peachy Strawberry.___The appeal is also entangled with broader political pressures ___ President-elect DonaldTrump, for instance, recently vowed to ___save vaping______ as well as a debate over the power of federal agencies that the court___s 6-3 conservative supermajorityhas repeatedly sought to curtail.At least some of the court___s conservatives were concerned with how the FDA reviewed the market applications from the companies, questioning whether regulators changed the type of evidence of health benefit required for approval. In describing the industry___s argument, conservative Justice Clarence Thomas suggested the method the FDA used was ___a moving target.______Either they weren___t clear or you changed the guidance as time went on,___ Thomas said.Curtis Gannon, a deputy solicitor general representing the FDA, disputed that framing and said the law itself was clear about what evidence the agency required.The US Supreme Court is seen on the first day of a new term in Washington, DC, on October 7, 2024.Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty ImagesRelated articleIn transgender care case, Supreme Court to consider how far equal protection goesConservative Justice Samuel Alito more directly questioned the FDA___s review process, suggesting the agency told the vaping industry that they might be able to present some evidence of public health benefit to win approval but that ___we___re not going to tell you concretely what that something else might be.___But Justice Brett Kavanaugh, another member of the court___s conservative wing, repeatedly signaled he could support the FDA.___You agree that, at the end of the day, the agency has to make a choice and it___s going to be a choice with uncertainty?___ Kavanaugh asked the lawyer arguing for the companies.The court___s three-justice liberal wing appeared to be on the side of the agency.___We know nicotine is addictive. You put it in to addict people,___ Justice Sonia Sotomayor said. ___Presumably, you put it in to addict adults and children.___The vaping industry says its nicotine-delivering products help Americans transition off cigarettes and that the dessert-themed flavors are attractive to adults.The industry has argued the FDA violated federal law by changing the rules for how the products were evaluated.But Justice Elena Kagan, a member of the court___s liberal bloc, said that it was exceedingly clear that the federal regulators were skeptical about the stated health benefits of vaping. Given that, she said, it would have made sense for the industry to present as much evidence as it possibly could to win approval.___There___s just not a lot of mystery here about what FDA was doing,___ Kagan said.Recognizing the harm caused by youth smoking, Congress passed a law in 2009 giving the FDA new powers to regulate tobacco products. In 2016, the FDA decided that e-cigarettes qualified as tobacco products and it began reviewing authorization applications for millions of vaping products.The industry says that the FDA changed its method in the middle of the process, requiring companies to show that flavored products are more effective than tobacco-flavored products at helping smokers quit or cut back on cigarettes.Theconservative 5th US Circuit Court of Appeals sided with the industry in January, finding that officials had perpetrated a ___regulatory switcheroo,___ sending manufactures on a ___wild goose chase___ in to get approval.Seven other appeals courts have rejected similar challenges of the agency___s denials.President Joe Biden and former President Donald Trump.Getty ImagesRelated live-storyBiden pardons son Hunter as Trump forges ahead with presidential transitionThe case is one of several pending before the Supreme Court that faces an uncertain future in part because of Trump___s election last month. The former and future president has offered inconsistent guidance on the industry, at one point moving forward with a ban on flavored vaping products only to dial that effort back weeks later.___We have a new administration coming in,___ Eric Heyer, who argued on behalf of the vaping companies, told the justices. ___The president-elect is on record saying, ___I___m going to save flavored vapes.___ We don___t know exactly what that___s going to look like.___Denny Henigan, vice president of legal and regulatory affairs for the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, told CNN that any change by the Trump administration would face legal scrutiny and that FDA officials would need to demonstrate to courts that their changes are also based in science.___The decisions FDA has been making on flavored e-cigarettes are solidly grounded in the science. There is no question that these flavored products have an enormous appeal to young people,___ Henigan said. ___We___re hopeful that if the Trump administration revisits this issue it will be clear that these are products that cause great harm to kids are highly addictive.___"	6369	
cnn	The New Yorker: Pete Hegseth forced out of veterans¡¦ advocacy groups over misconduct allegations	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/02/politics/pete-hegseth-veterans-advocacy-groups-misconduct-allegations/index.html	"CNN¡XPete Hegseth, President-elect Donald Trump___s pick to lead the Department of Defense, was pushed out as the head of two veterans___ advocacy organizations amid internal allegations of mismanagement and personal misconduct,The New Yorkerreported Sunday.A whistleblower report obtained by the magazine alleged that, during his time leading one of those nonprofit advocacy groups, Hegseth was repeatedly intoxicated at work events and gatherings with staff. It also alleges that he sexually pursued female staffers, and that the organization ignored another staffer___s alleged sexual misconduct.The report is the latest scrutiny into Hegseth, a veteran and former Fox News host with no prior government experience, ahead of what___s expected to be a tough Senate confirmation process. It comes on the heels ofreports detailing a sexual assault allegationfrom 2017, which Hegseth has denied and in which no charges were filed.Asked by CNN for comment about the magazine___s reporting, a Hegseth adviser said, ___We___re not going to comment on outlandish claims laundered through the New Yorker by a petty and jealous disgruntled former associate of Mr. Hegseth___s. Get back to us when you try your first attempt at actual journalism.___ Hegseth___s team had provided The New Yorker with an identical statement.The seven-page whistleblower report was compiled by former employees of Concerned Veterans for America, the advocacy group where Hegseth was president from 2013 to 2016, and sent to its senior management in February 2015, The New Yorker reported. The magazine did not name the employees, and CNN has not independently reviewed the report.The report, according to The New Yorker, alleges that Hegseth had to be restrained from joining the dancers on stage at a Louisiana strip club where he had brought his team ___ and that the organization ignored a female employee___s allegation that another member of Hegseth___s staff attempted to sexually assault her at that strip club.It claims that his management team ___sexually pursued___ employees and divided the organization___s female staffers into two groups ___ ___party girls___ and ___not party girls,___ The New Yorker reported.In a separate complaint, which The New Yorker reported was emailed by a different employee to Hegseth___s successor as head of Concerned Veterans for America in late 2015, the employee alleged that while on a work trip to Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, Hegseth and someone traveling with the group___s Defend Freedom Tour closed down a hotel bar and yelled multiple times, ___Kill all Muslims!___In the letter, the staffer criticized Hegseth___s ___despicable behavior___ and said it ___embarrassed the entire organization.___ The staffer also wrote about another incident where Hegseth ___passed out___ in the back of a party bus and then urinated in front of a hotel where the organization___s team was staying, according to the magazine.The New Yorker reported that when reached for comment, the author of the letter, who was not named by the magazine, said: ___If you print that, I will deny I wrote it.___Hegseth___s time running Concerned Veterans for America came after an earlier, controversial tenure leading Vets for Freedom, a nonprofit backed by Republican billionaire megadonors.A former associate of the group, the magazine reported, said the group___s donors became concerned about money being wasted on rumored parties that ___could politely be called trysts,___ and other inappropriate expenses. With the group mired in more than $500,000 in debt by early 2009, donors chose to wind it down and transfer most of its management to another veterans___ group. Hegseth___s role was reduced, and he ultimately departed years later.Margaret Hoover, a CNN political commentator who was an adviser to Vets for Freedom between 2008 and 2010, told CNN___s Erin Burnett last month that Hegseth ran the organization ___very poorly___ and lost donors___ confidence. She said the organization had less than 10 employees and a budget of less than $10 million.___And he couldn___t do that properly,___ Hoover said, raising questions about his ability to lead the Defense Department. ___I don___t know how he___s going to run an organization with an $857 billion budget, and 3 million individuals, based on what I saw in those years.___CNN previously reported that a woman accused Hegseth of sexually assaulting her in the early morning hours of October 8, 2017, in Monterey, California, where Hegseth had a speaking engagement the night before. The accuser told police that Hegseth physically blocked her from leaving a hotel room, took her phone and then sexually assaulted her.The Monterey County district attorney told CNN last month said that her office declined to file charges against Hegseth in January 2018 because ___no charges were supported by proof beyond a reasonable doubt.___ She declined to comment further. Hegseth insists that the encounter with the unnamed woman was consensual.Years later, Hegseth paid the accuser in a settlement agreement that included a confidentiality clause, his attorney Timothy Parlatore told CNN in a statement last month. Parlatore said Hegseth settled because it was during the ___Me Too___ movement and he didn___t want to lose his job at Fox News if the accusation became public. The statement did not share how much the accuser was paid as part of the settlement, although Parlatore said it was ___a significantly reduced amount.___Hegseth___s alleged conduct toward women came under further scrutiny over the weekend, when The New York Times reported thathis mother sent an emailto her son in 2018 that sharply criticized his treatment of women.Penelope Hegseth told her son in the email that there are ___many___ women whom he has ___abused in some way___ and encouraged him to ___get some help,___ according to the email published by The Times.According to The Times___ report, Penelope Hegseth wrote, ___I have no respect for any man that belittles, lies, cheats, sleeps around and uses women for his own power and ego. You are that man (and have been for years) and as your mother, it pains me and embarrasses me to say that, but it is the sad, sad truth.___Penelope Hegseth on Friday told The New York Times that she wrote the email ___in anger, with emotion___ and that she had immediately apologized in a separate email. She went on to defend her son, saying her own characterization of his treatment of women in the 2018 email ___has never been true.___CNN___s Alayna Treene contributed to this report."	6549	
cnn	White House halls decked with ¡¥peace and light¡¦ holiday theme	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/02/politics/white-house-christmas-decorations/index.html	"CNN¡XThe White House has been spruced up and transformed into a gilded winter wonderland after more than 300 volunteers and residence staff spent the holiday weekend decking the halls for the final time under the Biden administration.The theme of this year¡¦s decorations, the Office of the First Lady announced Monday, is a ¡§season of peace and light,¡¨ drawing on the spirit of the holiday season ¡V and the d_cor hewed closely to the theme, with thousands of twinkling lights and floating paper doves.¡§The holidays have always held a special place in our hearts, and we¡¦ve loved opening the doors of the People¡¦s House wider and wider each year, continuing the spirit of goodwill and gratitude,¡¨ President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden wrote in a welcome letter to visitors.They continued, ¡§At the holidays, Americans come together every year in fellowship and faith, reminding us that we are stronger as a community than we are apart. The strength of our country, and the soul of our Nation, come from you. May the promise of this ¡¥Season of Peace and Light¡¦ guide your path forward.¡¨The White House welcomes approximately 100,000 visitors each holiday season, touring the festive displays from the East Wing through the Library, the Vermeil Room, the China Room, the Diplomatic Reception Room and more.Visitors will walk through the East Colonnade filled with suspended brass bells tied with red ribbons, tour a ¡§forest of vintage ceramic Christmas trees¡¨ spinning on tree-shaped platforms in the Library, view a ¡¨reflective canopy¡¨ of shiny confetti in the East Room, and see the official White House Christmas tree decorated as a whimsical, moving carousel in the Blue Room.The Green Room features sparkly jewel tones and decorations made from metallic pipe cleaners. And in the State Dining Room, festive curtains made from long, curled paper ribbons. Nest holiday-scented candles are tucked throughout the tour.Last week, Jill Biden welcomed this year¡¦s official tree from Cartner¡¦s Christmas Tree Farm in North Carolina. The tree survived Hurricane Helene, she said, when thousands of the family farm¡¦s trees did not.This year¡¦s decor includes 83 Christmas trees, approximately 9,810 feet of ribbon, over 28,125 ornaments, over 2,200 paper doves, and over 165,075 twinkling holiday lights, according to the office of the first lady.And the annual White House-inspired gingerbread house is a feat of baking and engineering: It was constructed with ¡§25 sheets of gingerbread dough, 10 sheets of sugar cookie dough, 65 pounds of pastillage, 45 pounds of chocolate, 50 pounds of royal icing, and 10 pounds of gum paste,¡¨ her office said. Mechanized figurines skate across a lake nestled atop icing.The volunteers, led by event planner Bryan Rafanelli, who oversaw multiple state dinners during Biden¡¦s tenure, worked around the clock to get the decorations in place while the first family traveled to Nantucket for Thanksgiving.Jill Biden will welcome National Guard families to be the first to tour the decorations later Monday."	3037	
cnn	"Trump press secretary pick removed post praising Pence on January 6, then ran for Congress as an election denier"	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/02/politics/karoline-leavitt-pence-january-6-2020-election/index.html	"CNN¡XKaroline Leavitt, President-elect Donald Trump___s incoming White House press secretary, deleted two social media posts she shared after the January 6, 2021, riot at the US Capitol ___ including a retweet praising then-Vice President Mike Pence for certifying the 2020 election.The postincluded a video of Pence calling the attack ___a dark day in the history of the United States Capitol___ as he presided over the certification of the results hours after the riot. Trump to this day criticizes Pence for certifying the results of the 2020 election, falsely claiming it was stolen due to rampant voter fraud.Inanother post praisingthe actions of a Capitol Hill police officer who lured rioters away from lawmakers, Leavitt wrote simply, ___A hero.___Leavitt, who at the time was 23 and had recently departed Trump___s White House Press Office, had just accepted a job working for New York Rep. Elise Stefanik. Leavitt then ran unsuccessfully for a New Hampshire congressional seat in 2022, positioning herself as a staunch election denier.___I___m the only candidate in this race to say that President Trump won in 2020, and I will work my hardest every single day to make sure we get to the bottom of it,___ Leavitt said during a September 2021 interview with OANN, whichshe posted on her X account.In another interview in October of that year, Leavittagain deniedthat Joe Biden had won the 2020 election legitimately.___I do believe that if we were to audit all 50 states in this country, there is absolutely no way we would find Joe Biden legitimately won 81 million votes,___ she said. ___I fundamentally do not believe that, and I will tell you the majority of voters on the Republican side do not believe that either. We feel as though this election was taken away from us.______We saw irregularities across the country,___ she added, falsely.Leavitt won the Republican primary in that racebut went on to losethe general election to Democratic Rep. Chris Pappas by nearly 10%.Youngest White House press secretaryAt 27, Leavitt will be the youngest person ever to hold the position of White House press secretary. Following her 2022 campaign loss, Leavitt joined Trump___s PAC and then went to work for the Trump campaign, rising to become the campaign___s national press secretary.Leavitt___s shift from praising those who defended the democratic process on January 6 to embracing election denialism reflects a broader trend among Republicans who initially distanced themselves from Trump after the riot, only to rally behind him later as his grip on the party tightened.Karoline Leavitt waves to supporters while arriving for a campaign event on September 29, 2022, in Manchester, New Hampshire.Charles Krupa/APAs Leavitt steps into her role in the briefing room, her past statements and actions will likely draw scrutiny over how she balances messaging on behalf of Trump with maintaining credibility in the press briefing room.Trump praised Leavitt___s appointment, calling her ___smart,___ ___tough___ and ___effective,___ as he isexpected to shake upthe traditional White House press briefing in some way.Leavitt declined to comment directly to CNN for this story. In a statement, the Trump transition team did not address her deleted tweets and instead reverted to making false claims about election fraud in 2020.___Karoline was completely correct in saying there were irregularities with the 2020 election and any cases of fraud should be investigated in order to protect and preserve the sanctity of our Democracy,___ Steven Cheung, Trump___s communications director, told CNN in a statement. ___She will make a wonderful Press Secretary championing the policies and agenda of President Trump, and there is nobody better who can articulate that to the public.___Deleted posts related to January 6In the days after January 6, Leavitt shared several posts critical of the riot, including one from Sen. Tim Scott___s then-communications director that read: ___Love him or hate him, he kept the wheels of democracy moving & pushed forward to certify his own loss. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.___Along with the post about Pence, Leavitt also shared a tweet praising the actions of Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman for hisheroic actions during the riot, adding to the tweet ___a hero,___ about Goodman.The tweet, sent from a then-CNN congressional producer, described the moment that showed Goodman at the top of a staircase confronting a mob of rioters advancing toward him.Goodman noticed the unguarded Senate chamber entrance to his left and made a quick decision to lead the rioters away to his right ___ actions that have been credited with possibly saving senators___ lives.Both those posts were deleted from Leavitt___s feed.CNN reviewed Leavitt___s tweets and found those two were among the only ones removed of those she sent between November 2020 and January 2021. Most of Leavitt___stweetsfrom this period focused on the success of Operation Warp Speed in delivering a vaccine for Covid-19 in record time. Another included false claims ofvoter fraud in Georgiaduring the 2020 election.Leavittdid leave upa tweet saying she was ___heartbroken___ over the Capitol riot and thanking Capitol police for keeping her and others safe. Leavitt did not explain why this was kept up but others were removed when asked by CNN."	5347	
cnn	"Nancy Mace, now targeting transgender lawmaker, called herself ¡¥pro-transgender rights¡¦ in 2023"	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/25/politics/nancy-mace-transgender-rights-comments/index.html	"CNN¡XRepublican Rep. Nancy Mace as recently as last year called herself ¡§pro-transgender rights¡¨ and said she supported children exploring gender identities with different hairstyles, clothing and preferred pronouns, a stark contrast to more recent comments that have put her in the national spotlight.Last week, the South Carolina Republicanintroduced a resolutionto amend the rules of the US House of Representatives to ban transgender women from using women¡¦s restrooms at the Capitol andfiledbroader legislation that would apply to every federal building and federally funded school.The resolution came in direct response to the election of Democratic Rep.-elect Sarah McBride of Delaware, the first out transgender person elected to Congress.In hundreds of tweets over the last week, Mace has used a flood of anti-transgender rhetoric, includingrepeatedlycallingtransgender people ¡§mentally ill,¡¨ which is a stark ¡X and unexplained ¡X departure fromher past positioningas a self-proclaimed pro-LGBTQ Republican.In July 2023, Mace described herself as ¡§pro-transgender rights¡¨ and voiced support for children exploring their identities, such as by changing pronouns, hairstyles or clothing.¡§If they wanna take on a different pronoun or a different gender identity or grow their hair out, or wear a dress or wear pants, or do those things as a minor ¡V¡X those are all things that I think most people would support. Be who you want to be, but don¡¦t make permanent changes as a child,¡¨Mace saidin an interview last year.Mace made the comments in the context of saying she opposed gender-affirming care for minors.¡§They may decide as an adult, ¡¥Hey, instead of being Johnny, I want to be Jill¡¦ ¡X that¡¦s OK,¡¨ she said. ¡§But let them figure that out and make that decision when they can consent.¡¨It¡¦s hard to pinpoint a clear through line for when Mace shifted her tone to be so harshly anti-transgender.Just a month afterdescribing herself as ¡§pro-transgender rights¡¨ and supporting children exploring their identities, Mace spoke out against transgender women competing in women¡¦s sports. While the shift might not necessarily be contradictory in policy, it represented a departure in tone, moving from seemingly supportive and inclusive language to critical rhetoric.In texts with CNN, Mace reiterated her past support for LGBTQ rights, including voting for same-sex marriage. She clarified that while she has no issue with individuals dressing as they choose or using preferred pronouns, she opposes transgender women accessing women¡¦s private spaces, citing concerns about protecting women and girls. Mace, however, also described transgender individuals as needing to ¡§seek help.¡¨¡§Voted for gay marriage twice. Would do it again. Have supported pro LGBTQ legislation. Draw the line at women being forced to undress in front of men or men using our bathrooms or any private spaces,¡¨ Mace told CNN.Mace has in the past credited her personal connections to LGBTQ individuals for shaping her inclusive rhetoricIn 2021, she co-sponsored the Fairness for All Act, which aimed to ban discrimination based on gender identity and sexual orientation while carving out exemptions for religious institutions.¡§I strongly support LGBTQ rights and equality,¡¨she saidat the time. ¡§No one should be discriminated against. ÿ I have friends and family that identify as LGBTQ. Understanding how they feel and how they¡¦ve been treated is important. Having been around gay, lesbian and transgender people has informed my opinion over my lifetime.¡¨House Speaker Mike Johnson said last week there is a policy throughout the Capitol complex that effectively bans transgender women from women¡¦s restrooms and other female-designated spaces in the Capitol.¡§All single-sex facilities in the Capitol and House Office Buildings ¡X such as restrooms, changing rooms, and locker rooms ¡X are reserved for individuals of that biological sex,¡¨ the Louisiana Republicansaid in a statement.He did not outline how the policy would be enforced but noted that unisex restrooms are available throughout the Capitol.McBride responded on social media, ¡§I¡¦m not here to fight about bathrooms. I¡¦m here to fight for Delawareans and to bring down costs facing families. Like all members, I will follow the rules as outlined by Speaker Johnson, even if I disagree with them.¡¨"	4328	
cnn	Trump¡¦s extraordinary selection of his daughters¡¦ fathers-in-law for key posts underscores his reliance on family members	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/01/politics/massad-boulos-michael-tiffany-trump/index.html	"CNN¡XDonald Trumphas selected billionaire Massad Boulos to serve as his senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs¡X the second time in as many days the president-elect has chosen a family member for a key post.Though Trump didn¡¦t mention it in his announcement Sunday,Boulos is the father-in-law of the president-elect¡¦s daughter Tiffany and was heavily involved in campaigning for Trump in Muslim American communities in battleground states. On Saturday, Trumpnamed real estate developerCharles Kushnerto serve as the next US ambassador to France. Kushner is the father of Jared Kushner, who is married to Trump¡¦s daughter Ivanka, and waspardoned by Trump in 2020following a 2005 conviction on federal charges.Charles Kushner arrives for the funeral of Ivana Trump on July 20, 2022, in New York.John Minchillo/APRelated articleTrump selects Jared Kushner¡¦s father, Charles Kushner, for ambassador to FranceThe extraordinary selection of his daughters¡¦ fathers-in-law for two critical posts underscores how Trump will continue his precedent of leaning on trusted family members in his second term.Trump on Sunday described Boulos as ¡§a highly respected leader in the business world, with extensive experience on the International scene.¡¨¡§Massad is a dealmaker, and an unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East. He will be a strong advocate for the United States, and its interests, and I am pleased to have him on our team!¡¨ Trump wrote on Truth Social.Trump has long turned to his family members to serve in political roles, raising questions about conflicts of interest and nepotism. From 2017 to 2021, his daughter Ivanka Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, served as senior advisers with West Wing offices, providing input on a range of issues. Kushner was one of the lead negotiators of theAbraham Accords, a pact that normalized relations between Israel and the United Arab Emirates, and isexpected to continue to adviseTrump on Middle East issues from outside the White House. Ivanka Trump has said she does not plan to return to Washington in any formal capacity.Donald Trump¡¦s sons Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump ran the family real estate business during his first term but emerged as key surrogates on the 2024 campaign trail. The president-elect¡¦s daughter-in-law Lara Trump, meanwhile, was installed as co-chair of the Republican National Committee.Tiffany Trump, who received a law degree from Georgetown University in 2020, has not publicly weighed in on politics.And 18-year-old Barron Trump, who started college at New York University this fall, emerged as a key influence on his father¡¦s decision to appear on high-profile podcasts targeting the young male voters who propelled Trump to victory in November.Kash Patel speaks during a campaign event for Republican election candidates at the Whiskey Roads Restaurant & Bar on July 31, 2022 in Tucson, Arizona.Brandon Bell/Getty Images/FileRelated articleTrump plans to replace current FBI director with firebrand Kash Patel, drawing bipartisan fireThe appointments raise questions about influence and power ¡X and profit ¡X among Trump¡¦s family members in the US government.For instance, Jared Kushner¡¦s potential involvement this time comes with a new complicating layer: Shortly after leaving Washington, he founded an investment fund with major backing from sovereign wealth funds in the Gulf. In recent years, his investment fund received $2 billion from Saudi Arabia¡¦s Public Investment Fund.Meanwhile, congressional Republicans have gone after PresidentJoe Bidenover allegations that the president¡¦s son Hunter Biden improperly financially benefited from his father¡¦s time in office as vice president. There isevidence Hunter Biden leveragedhis famous name while pursuing lucrative foreign deals, which might be untoward but isn¡¦t illegal. However, there is no evidence that Joe Biden ever profited off his son¡¦s business deals or was influenced while in office by his son¡¦s business dealings, and congressional Republicans¡¦impeachment inquiryinto Biden fizzled out.GOP Rep. James Comer, chair of the House Oversight Committee,unveiled bipartisan legislationearlier this year that would require presidents and vice presidents to disclose their tax returns and any foreign payments made to them or their families in the two years prior to taking office, during their term in office and in the two years following.CNN¡¦s Kit Maher contributed to this report."	4442	
cnn	Joe Biden¡¦s pardon reversal reflects family loyalty over legacy	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/01/politics/joe-biden-pardon-reversal-analysis/index.html	"CNN¡XIn the end, President Joe Biden acted as a father.The decision to issue a blanket pardon for his son Hunter will forever be a part of the president___s legacy. Across an extraordinary five decades in public life, with a long rise from the Senate to the Oval Office,his Sunday night declarationputs an exclamation point ___ and a question mark ___ on Biden___s tenure in a changing era of American politics.___I hope Americans will understand why a father and a President would come to this decision,___ Biden said in the closing words ofa statement issued by the White House. It came at the end of a Thanksgiving holiday during which he reached a final decision on his plan to pardon his oldest son after spending the weekend together in Nantucket.For Biden, family has long come above nearly everything. His relentless pledge to not pardon his son was delivered before he stepped away from running for a second term, so it remained an open question ___ despiteWhite House denials___ whether he would uphold his promise or choose to protect his son from any forthcoming punishment from President-elect Donald Trump___s administration.President Joe Biden and his son Hunter Biden disembark from Air Force One in Syracuse, New York, on February 4, 2023.Elizabeth Frantz/ReutersanalysisBiden___s pardon of his son makes presidential historyTime was running out for the president to make his decision. Hunter Biden faced a sentencing hearing on December 12 for his conviction on federal gun charges and was also scheduled to be sentenced in a separate criminal case on December 16, after pleading guilty in September on federal tax evasion charges.___I said I would not interfere with the Justice Department___s decision-making,___ the president said in his statement, ___and I kept my word even as I have watched my son being selectively, and unfairly, prosecuted.___The Sunday night announcement will be freshly scrutinized as a new week ___ and a new political era ___ dawns in Washington. Even as Republican outrage poured in, for Biden, it was an exercise of his fleeting executive authority that underscored how his family comes first.The president made clear he was worried, above all, about what fate could befall his son in his successor___s new administration.___Hunter was singled out only because he is my son ___ and that is wrong,___ Biden said. Looking to the future, he added, ___In trying to break Hunter, they___ve tried to break me ___ and there___s no reason to believe it will stop here. Enough is enough.___It___s a monumental moment for Biden, a former chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, who is poised to take his leave from a far different Washington from the one he spent more than half a century in. He made his decision known only hours before setting off for a trip to Africa, which is expected to be the final foreign trip of his presidency.It was the biggest acknowledgment yet that for Biden, 82, Washington and American politics has changed dramatically. But one thing, above all, has not: family.President Joe Biden speaks on the South Lawn of the White House on December 1, in Washington, DC.Nathan Posner/Anadolu/Getty ImagesanalysisBiden___s pardon of his son pours fuel on Trump___s claims of politicized justiceAfter Biden was elected to the Senate in 1972 and he lost his wife and daughter in a car accident, he would train back to Delaware every night to see his sons, Hunter and Beau, with his daily commute by Amtrak becoming a central part of his story. After Beau Biden died of a glioblastoma brain tumor in 2015, the elder Biden___s bond with Hunter strengthened beyond words.It___s that long background that is central to any decisions involving his family, a longtime Biden friend said Sunday night, and will forever outweigh any criticism or controversy.___For my entire career I have followed a simple principle: just tell the American people the truth. They___ll be fair-minded,___ Biden said in his statement. ___Here___s the truth: I believe in the justice system, but as I have wrestled with this, I also believe raw politics has infected this process and it led to a miscarriage of justice ___ and once I made this decision this weekend, there was no sense in delaying it further.___Biden made the decision, a longtime adviser said, clearly mindful of the searing criticism to come. It was not one reached, like so many Biden judgments, after long and tedious discussions with his circle of advisers.This was a far more of a family decision, where his role as a father ___ the only title he will keep for life ___ came above all else."	4597	
cnn	Trump threatens 100% tariff on BRICS countries if they pursue creating new currency	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/30/politics/trump-brics-currency-tariff/index.html	"CNN¡XPresident-electDonald Trumpsaid he would require countries that are part of BRICS ¡X aChina- and Russia-backed group of emerging economies¡X to commit to not creating new currency or face 100% tariffs during his administration.¡§The idea that the BRICS Countries are trying to move away from the Dollar while we stand by and watch is OVER. We require a commitment from these Countries that they will neither create a new BRICS Currency, nor back any other Currency to replace the mighty U.S. Dollar or, they will face 100% Tariffs, and should expect to say goodbye to selling into the wonderful U.S. Economy,¡¨ Trumpposted on Truth Socialon Saturday afternoon.Kash Patel speaks during a campaign event for Republican election candidates at the Whiskey Roads Restaurant & Bar on July 31, 2022 in Tucson, Arizona.Brandon Bell/Getty Images/FileRelated articleTrump announces he intends to replace current FBI director with loyalist Kash PatelBRICS had been made up of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa since 2011. Earlier this year, Iran, the United Arab Emirates, Ethiopia and Egypt formally joined ¡X the first expansion in over a decade. Thirty-four countries have submitted an expression of interest in joining the bloc of major emerging economies, South African Foreign Minister Naledi Pandor said in February.The leader of one member country, Brazil¡¦s Luiz In_cio Lula da Silva, in 2023proposed creating a common currencyin South America to reduce reliance on the US dollar.Using BRICS currencies and banking networks outside the US dollar-denominated systemcould allowmember countries such as Russia, China and Iran to circumnavigate Western sanctions. But the chances of a new currency are probably slim due to the alliance¡¦s economic and geopolitical differences.Speaking to reporters ahead of a summit of BRICS countries in Russia in October, President Vladimir Putin said the group was ¡§not considering this issue.¡¨¡§Its time has not come yet. We need to be very careful and act gradually, without any rush,¡¨ Putin said when asked about any steps toward developing a common currency. He added the group was studying ¡§the possibilities to make wider use of national currencies¡¨ and enhancing coordination between their central banks to support trade.The expanding group is valuable to China as it looks to forge closer partnerships with key players to challenge the United States¡¦ global leadership. And it¡¦s also a boon to Russia, which has been shunned economically and diplomatically by the West following its 2022 invasion of Ukraine. This year, Russia assumed rotating chairmanship of the group.During the BRICS summit in October, Putin and Chinese leader Xi Jinping sought to project the message that the West stands isolated in the world, while a¡§global majority¡¨of countries support their bid to challenge American global leadership.Trump¡¦s latest economic threat comes days after hepledged massive hikes in tariffson goods coming from Mexico, Canada and China starting on the first day of his administration. The move, Trump said, will be in retaliation for illegal immigration and ¡§crime and drugs¡¨ coming across the border.Since that announcement, Trump spoke with Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum for the first time following the tariff announcement, but they haveoffered conflicting statements about the call. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, meanwhile,traveled to Trump¡¦s Mar-a-Lago estatein Florida to meet with the president. Trudeau said the Friday dinner with Trump ¡§was an excellent conversation,¡¨ and the president-elect called it a ¡§very productive meeting.¡¨CNN¡¦s Simone McCarthy, Robert Ilich and Kit Maher contributed to this report.Correction: An earlier version of this article stated that Saudi Arabia had joined BRICS earlier this year. Saudi Arabia was invited to join the group but does not appear to have formally joined. It was represented by its foreign minister at the BRICS summit in Kazan in October."	3962	
cnn	READ: Statement from President Joe Biden announcing the pardon of his son Hunter Biden	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/01/politics/joe-biden-pardon-hunter-biden-statement/index.html	"CNN¡XPresidentJoe Bidenannounced Sunday that he has pardoned his son Hunter Biden, who faced sentencing this month on gun crime and tax convictions, marking a reversal as he prepares to leave office.Read the president___s full statement about the pardonhere."	257	
cnn	"Trump plans to replace current FBI director with firebrand Kash Patel, drawing bipartisan fire"	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/30/politics/kash-patel-fbi-director-trump/index.html	"CNN¡XPresident-electDonald Trumpplans to nominate firebrand loyalist Kash Patel to serve as FBI director, an extraordinary move that would put a self-described enemy of the so-called deep state as the head of the nation¡¦s top law enforcement agency ¡X a role that would give Patel power to carry out Trump¡¦s threats to go after his political opponents.Trump¡¦s interest in Patel speaks to his urge to fill top law enforcement and intelligence positions with supporters who may be open to carrying out his demands for specific investigations as well as inoculating the president against possible future probes.¡§I am proud to announce that Kashyap ¡¥Kash¡¦ Patel will serve as the next Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Kash is a brilliant lawyer, investigator, and ¡¥America First¡¦ fighter who has spent his career exposing corruption, defending Justice, and protecting the American People,¡¨ Trump posted on Truth Social on Saturday evening.Even among Trump loyalists, Patel is widely viewed as a controversial figure and relentless self-promoter whose value to the president-elect largely derives from a shared disdain for established power in Washington. Putting him in charge of the FBI would require forcing out current director Christopher Wray, who was appointed by Trump, before his term expires ¡X prompting bipartisan criticism.Former Trump national security adviser John Bolton compared Patel to Soviet leader Joseph Stalin¡¦s leader of secret police, the NKVD, telling CNN: ¡§The Senate should reject this nomination 100-0.¡¨White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan cautioned Sunday that the FBI director should not be subject to the ¡§whims¡¨ of politics, but declined to weigh in directly on Patel.¡§What makes the FBI director different from most other nominees is they¡¦re not just appointed for one term of a president, they¡¦re appointed for enough time to last past two terms of a president, because they¡¦re supposed to be insulated from politics,¡¨ Sullivan told CNN¡¦s Kasie Hunt on ¡§State of the Union.¡¨Incoming Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley heavily criticized Wray, the current FBI director, saying in a social media post that he ¡§failed¡¨ during his tenure. But Grassley added that Patel ¡§must prove to Congress¡¨ that he will do better than Wray.President-elect Donald Trump in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, DC on Wednesday, November 13.Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post/Getty ImagesRelated articleTrump¡¦s extreme dislike of FBI directors, explainedThe Patel pick almost certainly sets up another potentially explosive confirmation battle in the Senate, where members arealready bracingfor how they¡¦ll navigate a slew of unorthodox Trump picks. One of those picks, fellow Trump loyalist and Justice Department critic Matt Gaetz,dropped out of the fightto become attorney general as it became clear the former Florida congressman would not have the GOP support necessary for confirmation.It¡¦s unclear whether Patel could face a similar uphill battle through the confirmation process.Wray has three years remaining in his 10-year term and would have to resign or be fired to create a vacancy. Trump nominated Wray in 2017after firing James Comey, but he began to sour on Wray before he left office in 2021. Trump¡¦s view of the FBI only worsened after his Mar-a-Lago resort was searched in August 2022, and Trump was later indicted for allegedly retaining classified documents.¡§Every day, the men and women of the FBI continue to work to protect Americans from a growing array of threats,¡¨ the agency said in a statement to CNN. ¡§Director Wray¡¦s focus remains on the men and women of the FBI, the people we do the work with, and the people we do the work for.¡¨Patel has heavily criticized the FBI and, in a podcast interview in September, called for the agency¡¦s headquarters in Washington, DC, to be dismantled and turned into a ¡§museum of the deep state.¡¨¡§The FBI¡¦s footprint has gotten so freakin¡¦ big,¡¨ Patel said on the ¡§Shawn Ryan Show,¡¨ criticizing the agency¡¦s intelligence-gathering operation.During the interview, Patel also ridiculed the FBI for its 2022 search warrant of Trump¡¦s Mar-a-Lago residence in Florida, which led to charges being brought against the former president for retaining classified documents. The judge overseeing that case eventuallydismissed the chargesagainst Trump.In a2023 interview with Steve Bannon, a former Trump adviser, Patel said the Justice Department under Trump would ¡§come after¡¨ members of the media.¡§We¡¦ve got to put in all-American patriots top to bottom,¡¨ Patel said of the DOJ, adding that the department under Trump ¡§will go out and find the conspirators, not just in government but in the media.¡¨Charles Kushner arrives for the funeral of Ivana Trump on July 20, 2022, in New York.John Minchillo/APRelated articleTrump selects Jared Kushner¡¦s father, Charles Kushner, for ambassador to France¡§Yes, we¡¦re going to come after the people in the media who lied about American citizens, who helped Joe Biden rig presidential elections ¡V we¡¦re going to come after you,¡¨ he said.Earlier this month, one of the president-elect¡¦s top advisers, Elon Musk, appeared to weigh in on Patel¡¦s candidacy for the FBI job via X, the social media platform he owns. He responded with a ¡§100¡¨ emoji to a top Trump ally¡¦s tweet endorsing Patel for the job.Patel rose to prominence within Trump¡¦s orbit in 2018, when he served as an aide to Rep. Devin Nunes, the top Republican on the House Intelligence Committee at the time. Patel played a key role in Nunes¡¦ efforts to discredit the FBI¡¦s Russia investigation into the Trump campaign, including a controversial classified memo that alleged FBI abuses of Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act warrants on Trump advisers.In his 2023 book, ¡§Government Gangsters: The Deep State, the Truth, and the Battle for Our Democracy,¡¨ Patel lambasted ¡§crazed partisans¡¨ for hijacking ¡§the law enforcement apparatus¡¨ against Trump.Patel¡¦s book heavily criticizes what he refers to as ¡§the deep state¡¨ ¡V an amorphous term he says includes elected leaders, journalists, Big Tech tycoons and ¡§members of the unelected bureaucracy¡¨ ¡V calling it ¡§the most dangerous threat to our democracy.¡¨Patel in his book also calls for ¡§a comprehensive housecleaning¡¨ of the Justice Department, arguing it has protected high-ranking members of the Democratic Party, failed to prosecute individuals who leaked information during the first Trump administration, and unjustly targeted Republicans and their allies.Trump has praised the book as a ¡§blueprint to take back the White House and remove these Gangsters from all of Government,¡¨ according to promotional endorsements of the book.In 2019, Patel went to work for Trump on the National Security Council before becoming chief of staff to the acting defense secretary at the end of Trump¡¦s first term.When Trumpconsidered firing then-CIA Director Gina Haspelafter the 2020 election ¡V as he pushed to release more information about the Russia investigation ¡V Patel was floated as a potential replacement.Donald Trump attends a campaign rally at Santander Arena on November 4, 2024, in Reading, Pennsylvania.Evan Vucci/APRelated articleTrump threatens 100% tariff on BRICS countries if they pursue creating new currencyWhile that never came to pass, Patel has remained a fixture in Trump¡¦s orbit, though his proximity to the president-elect has ebbed and flowed.The mixed views of Patel among those close to Trump has been on display during the transition process as he waspassed over for the job of CIA director¡V a role sources say he had actively lobbied for.Multiple sources familiar with the Trump transition processpreviously expresseddeep concerns about the possibility of Patel being named FBI director ¡V a role where he would have vast authority to investigate the president¡¦s political enemies, help declassify sensitive information and carry out a purge of career civil servants.¡§Kash is frightening at the bureau,¡¨ a source familiar with internal deliberations about the role of FBI director previously told CNN.FBI directors serve 10-year terms in part to shield the bureau¡¦s leader from political pressure. FBI directors serve decadelong terms as the result of a post-Watergate law passed in response to J. Edgar Hoover¡¦s controversial 48-year leadership of the agency.The breaking of this norm isnot new for Trump, who fired Comey shortly after taking office in 2017. Comey, who helmed the FBI during the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election as well as the Hillary Clinton email controversy, was fired by Trump in May 2017 after serving in the position for over three years.Trump on Saturday evening also announced that he has picked Chad Chronister, sheriff of Hillsborough County, Florida, to lead the Drug Enforcement Administration in his incoming administration.This story has been updated with additional information."	8936	
cnn	Biden fulfilling promise to visit Africa as US looks to counter China¡¦s deepening influence in region	https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/01/politics/biden-promise-visit-africa/index.html	"CNN¡XPresidentJoe Bidenwill fulfill a two-year promise to visit Africa as he departs Sunday night for Angola, a trip aimed at highlighting US investment in the continent under his watch in the face of China___s deepening inroads in the region.Biden___s three-day visit to oil-rich Angola comes at the tail end of his presidency, as he___ll hand over power to President-electDonald Trumpin January. The trip provides Biden with another chance to cement relations with a key US partner in Africa even as the continent prepares for the return of Trump, whomade disparaging commentsabout African countries in his first term.When Biden lands in the capital of Luanda on Monday, it will mark the first time a sitting president has visited sub-Saharan Africa since 2015, when then-President Barack Obama visited Kenya and Ethiopia. It will also be the first time a US president has visited Angola, with which Biden has sought to shore up relations in recent years.As he hosted African leaders in Washington for a 2022 summit, Bidenvowed to visit the continentthe following year but ultimately missed that deadline. He scheduled a trip to Angola for this October,which was postponeddue to a pair of devastating hurricanes hitting the US.Biden___s trip will highlight investments in the Lobito Corridor, an 800-mile railway project backed by the United States and Europe aiming to facilitate the transport of critical minerals from interior Africa to Angola___s western port for exporting.The initiative is at the center of the Biden administration___s efforts to boost investment in Africa to bluntChina___s growing influence in the region, which has outpaced that of the US. Beijing has poured billions of dollars into infrastructure projects across the continent over the last decade through its Belt and Road Initiative. In September, Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged $50 billion in financial support for the continent as well as military aid.Charles Kushner arrives for the funeral of Ivana Trump on July 20, 2022, in New York.John Minchillo/APRelated articleTrump selects Jared Kushner___s father, Charles Kushner, for ambassador to FranceAt the same time, Russia has tried to expand its influence in Africa. The head of US Africa Commandwarned Congressin March that Russia is aggressively working to expand its footing among African countries, leaving several ___at the tipping point___ of falling under its influence.While China and Russia have made inroads in the continent, a senior administration official previewing the trip argued Biden ___put us back on the field___ by ___offering this alternative___ to China through US-backed investments.___That is the choice that is now available to countries throughout the region, not looking at, ___Do I have to accept Chinese investment with low standards and child labor and corruption ___ but do I have another offering to compare it to?______ the senior official said. ___This is what President Biden___s wanted: to transform our relationship in the region, to offer a different ___ more ___ investment, but with higher standards.___The Biden administration has sought to shift its strategy in Africa from one of development assistance and charity toward investment in specific countries, the senior official said. Officials suggested Biden___s team believes the policy will endure throughout future administrations.___While, of course, I can___t speak for the next administration, I think there___s a lot of reason to assume that some of these initiatives will continue on,___ a second senior administration official previewing the trip said, adding that the Lobito Corridor is ___paying dividends for all of us.___The US views Angola as a key partner, cooperating on economic, technological and scientific initiatives in the region, and Angola has played a key mediating role in the conflict in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo.As he looked to highlight his commitment to Africa, Biden hosted Angolan President Jo¡Ô¢Go Manuel Gon¡Ô_alves Louren¡Ô_o for an Oval Office meeting in 2023, touting American investments in the Lobito Corridor and solar energy projects.___Simply put, a partnership between Angola and America is more important and more impactful,___ Biden said.Angolan President Jo¡Ô¢Go Manuel Gon¡Ô_alves Louren¡Ô_o waits ahead of a meeting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Luanda on January 25, 2024.Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/Pool/AFP/Getty ImagesBiden departs for Africa on Sunday evening and makes a refueling stop in Sal, Cape Verde, where he will meet with the country___s prime minister, Ulisses Correia e Silva. Biden arrives in Luanda, Angola, on Monday and will meet with US embassy staff and their families.On Tuesday, Biden will hold a bilateral meeting with Louren¡Ô_o and deliver remarks at the National Slavery Museum, which is located near the site where slaves were once shipped to the US. The president will lay out ___both our shared history and highlight the growth and enduring strength of our relationships in Angola and across the continent,___ the second senior administration official said.The president will travel to Lobito on Wednesday, touring the Lobito Port Terminal and visiting the Carrinho Food Processing Factory. He is also set to meet with regional leaders during a Lobito Corrridor Trans-Africa Summit before departing for the US on Wednesday evening.The president will make new announcements, the official said, regarding a global health security partnership on infectious disease, agribusiness, security cooperation, and the preservation of Angola___s cultural heritage, including US support for Angola___s nomination of the Kwanza Corridor as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.Officials declined to say whether this would be Biden___s last trip abroad as president. His travel to Africa comes on the heels ofattending key summitsin Brazil and Peru, where Trump___s influence was already felt among world leaders.In an interview withThe New York Timesahead of Biden___s visit to Angola, Louren¡Ô_o said he is ___ready to work___ with Trump in the White House.___We aren___t concerned with a change that has happened in the U.S. administration. This is not something dramatic,___ Louren¡Ô_o said. ___It___s something normal in democracy. Powers come and go.___He added, ___He___s the one whom Angola and all the countries of the world will have to work with if they are to maintain relations with the United States.___This story has been updated with additional developments."	6483	
cnn	"Trump selects Jared Kushner¡¦s father, Charles Kushner, for ambassador to France"	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/30/politics/charles-kushner-france-ambassador-trump/index.html	"CNN¡XDonald Trumphas selected his son-in-law Jared Kushner___s father, Charles Kushner, to serve as the next US ambassador to France, the president-elect announced Saturday.___I am pleased to nominate Charles Kushner, of New Jersey, to serve as the U.S. Ambassador to France. He is a tremendous business leader, philanthropist, & dealmaker, who will be a strong advocate representing our Country & its interests,___ Trump wrote in a Truth Social post.The president-elect also noted the connection to Jared Kushner, who is married to Trump___s daughter Ivanka. ___His son, Jared, worked closely with me in the White House, in particular on Operation Warp Speed, Criminal Justice Reform, & the Abraham Accords,___ Trump wrote in his post.Charles Kushner, a real estate developer, waspardoned by Trump in 2020following a 2005 conviction on federal charges. Chris Christie,who led the caseas the US attorney for New Jersey, said in 2019 that Kushner committed ___one of the most loathsome, disgusting crimes___ he had prosecuted.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau exits the Delta Hotels by Marriott West Palm Beach ahead of a meeting with President-elect Donald Trump on November 29, 2024, in Palm Beach, Florida.Brandon Bell/Getty Images North America/Getty ImagesRelated articleTrump has dinner with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau at Mar-a-LagoKushner, who was under investigation at the time for making illegal campaign contributions, targeted his brother-in-law, William Schulder, a former employee turned witness for federal prosecutors in their case against the Democratic donor. As part of the plot, Kushner hired a prostitute to lure Schulder into having sex in a motel as a hidden camera rolled. A tape of the encounter was then sent to Kushner___s sister and Schulder___s wife. Ultimately, the intimidation stunt failed, and the woman turned on Kushner.Kushner pleaded guilty in 2005 to 16 counts of tax evasion, one count of retaliating against a federal witness and another count of lying to the Federal Election Commission. He was sentenced to two years in prison.Trump___s announcement comes as Jared Kushner has saidhe doesn___t plan on servingin the president-elect___s second administration. Kushner said at an event in Miami in February that he___s been ___very clear___ in his desire to focus on his private equity firm ___at this phase___ in his life.Kushner, however, is seen as being pivotal to the incoming administration___s Middle East efforts, even though he is not likely to take a formal job within it, regional diplomats and Trump alliestold CNN earlier this month.Since Trump left office in 2021, Kushner and his wife, Ivanka Trump, havemoved to Miamiand largely exited politics. Kushner founded an investment fund, Affinity Partners, shortly after leaving Washington with major backing from sovereign wealth funds in the Gulf.During Trump___s first tenure,Kushner___s fingerprints were on many, if not all, of the administration___s agenda items, including immigration, relations with China, the Middle East and the White House___s coronavirus response.This story has been updated with additional information.CNN___s Gregory Krieg, Kevin Liptak, Kylie Atwood and Ali Main contributed to this report."	3237	
cnn	New York Times: Pete Hegseth¡¦s mother wrote him an email in 2018 accusing him of mistreating women	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/30/politics/pete-hegseth-mother-email-new-york-times/index.html	"CNN¡XThe mother of Pete Hegseth, President-elect Donald Trump___s pick to lead the Department of Defense, sent an email to her son in 2018 that sharply criticized his treatment of women,The New York Times reported Friday.Penelope Hegseth told her son in the email that there are ___many___ women whom he has ___abused in some way___ and encouraged him to ___get some help,___ according to the email published by The Times.The email___s partial publication comes as Pete Hegseth, a veteran and former Fox News host with no prior government experience, is expected to face atough Senate confirmation process, including questions about a sexual assault allegation from October 2017. No charges were filed against Hegseth related to theincident, and he has denied the accusation, claiming the sexual encounter was consensual.According to The Times___ report, Penelope Hegseth wrote, ___I have no respect for any man that belittles, lies, cheats, sleeps around and uses women for his own power and ego. You are that man (and have been for years) and as your mother, it pains me and embarrasses me to say that, but it is the sad, sad truth.___Penelope Hegseth on Friday told The New York Times that she wrote the email ___in anger, with emotion___ and that she had immediately apologized in a separate email. She went on to defend her son, saying her own characterization of his treatment of women in the 2018 email ___has never been true.___CNN has reached out to Penelope Hegseth for comment. An attorney for Pete Hegseth declined to comment.Penelope Hegseth sent the email to her son on April 30, 2018, according to The Times___ report ___ around six months after the alleged assault. The email was sent in connection with her son___s divorce from his second wife, The Times reported.Steven Cheung, Trump___s communications director, said in a statement shared with CNN on Saturday that Penelope Hegseth___s email is ___an out-of-context snippet.______The New York Times and other outlets are despicable for using an out-of-context snippet of an illegally-obtained private email exchange between a mother and her son that does not accurately reflect the entirety of the conversation,___ Cheung said. ___In subsequent emails, Mrs. Hegseth expressed regret for her emotional message and apologized.___CNN has previously reported that a woman accused Pete Hegseth of sexually assaulting her in the early morning hours of October 8, 2017, in Monterey, California, where Hegseth had a speaking engagement the night before. Theaccuser told policethat Hegseth physically blocked her from leaving a hotel room, took her phone and then sexually assaulted her.Years later,Hegseth paid the accuserin a settlement agreement that included a confidentiality clause, his attorney Timothy Parlatoretold CNN in a statement earlier this month. Parlatore said Hegseth settled because it was during the ___Me Too___ movement and he didn___t want to lose his job at Fox News if the accusation became public. The statement did not share how much the accuser was paid as part of the settlement, although Parlatore said it was ___a significantly reduced amount.___After the allegation surfaced earlier this month,Hegseth told Republicans on a prayer callthat ___the battle is just beginning___ as he faces skepticism around his confirmation.During the call, Hegseth said that his family has received ___an outpouring of support___ since Trump announced the pick, adding: ___That___s the reason why we can endure the attacks and the onslaughts.___Trump___s allies have defended Hegseth, withSen. Markwayne Mullin___ who serves on the Senate Armed Services Committee, which would hold confirmation hearings for Hegseth ___ telling CNN___s Dana Bash that he ___absolutely___ believes Hegseth___s side of the story and that the allegation ___doesn___t prevent Pete from going forward with this.___ Mullin underscored that Hegseth was not charged with any wrongdoing and said that the police report on the incident supports Hegseth___s version of the encounter on October 8.Correction: This story has been updated to clarify that Peter Hegseth is a former Fox News host.CNN___s Alayna Treene, Kaitlan Collins, Casey Tolan, Scott Glover and Sara Murray contributed to this report."	4246	
cnn	Trump has dinner with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau at Mar-a-Lago	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/29/politics/donald-trump-justin-trudeau-dinner/index.html	"CNN¡XPresident-electDonald Trumphad dinner with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Friday evening at Mar-a-Lago.The meeting came just days afterTrump promised massive hikes in tariffson goods from Mexico and Canada starting on the first day of his administration, specifically calling for a 25% tariff on all products sent to the US.As Trudeau left a hotel in West Palm Beach on Saturday, he said his dinner with the president-elect the night before ___was an excellent conversation.___He did not stop to take further shouted questions about whether the two discussed tariffs or how he___s feeling about his relationship with the US president-elect.Trump said Saturday that he and Trudeau had a ___very productive meeting___ and discussed a range of topics, including fentanyl crossing the border and the ___massive trade deficit the U.S. has with Canada.______I just had a very productive meeting with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada,___ Trump wrote on Truth Social. ___We discussed many important topics that will require both Countries to work together to address, like the Fentanyl and Drug Crisis that has decimated so many lives as a result of Illegal Immigration, Fair Trade Deals that do not jeopardize American Workers, and the massive Trade Deficit the U.S. has with Canada.___During an unrelated Friday morning news conference, Trudeau said he looks forward to having ___lots of great conversations___ with Trump and that the two will ___work together to meet some of the concerns and respond to some of the issues.______One of the things that is really important to understand is that Donald Trump, when he makes statements like that, he plans on carrying them out. There___s no question about it,___ Trudeau said Friday. ___Our responsibility is to point out that in this way he would be actually not just be harming Canadians, who work so well with the United States; he___d actually be raising prices for American citizens as well and hurting American industry and businesses.___Some of Trump___s Cabinet picks attended the dinner with Trudeau Friday evening, including North Dakota Gov. Doug Burgum ___ whom Trump has asked to serve as Interior secretary ___ and his wife, Kathryn.Florida Rep. Mike Waltz, Trump___s national security adviser pick, and Trump transition co-chair Howard Lutnick, his Commerce secretary pick, were also at the table with their spouses.Trudeau___s chief of staff, Katie Telford, and Canadian Minister of Public Safety Dominic LeBlanc were also in attendance.Canada___s Global News wasfirst to reportthe list of who would be attending the dinner.Trump___s promised tariffsTrump___s punishing tariffs, if enacted, could wreak havoc on America___s supply chains and industries reliant on goods from the country___s closest trading partners.CNN previously reported that after the president-elect___s announcement, Trump and Trudeau had a brief call that was focused on border security and trade. A senior Canadian government source characterized the call as productive and told CNN that the two promised to stay in touch in the days to come.President-elect Donald Trump and Canadian Prime Minister Justin TrudeauGetty ImagesDuring Trump___s first administration, the US and Canada at times had a rocky relationship, particularly on the issue of trade. Trump used tariffs against Canada during negotiations over replacing the North American Free Trade Agreement.Many US imports from Canada and Mexico are exempted from tariffs because of the USMCA trade agreement among the three nations that Trump pushed for during his first administration. It___s not clear how Trump would plan to implement the proposed tariffs without violating the USMCA.Earlier this week, Trump spoke with Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum for the first time following Trump___s tariff announcement, but they haveoffered conflicting statements about the call.Trump said Wednesday that Sheinbaum agreed to shut down the US-Mexico border, but Sheinbaum on Thursday denied doing so.Sheinbaum has also suggested that Mexico would retaliate with counter-tariffs if Trump went through with his threat.Trump has faced backlash over his tariff proposal in the recent days, including from President Joe Biden, who called it ___counterproductive___ and warned it could ___begin to screw up___ the US___ relationships with Canada and Mexico.This story has been updated with additional reporting.CNN___s Paula Newton, Kim Berryman, Kaanita Iyer and Jennifer Hansler contributed to this report."	4510	
cnn	"Republicans will flip the Senate, CNN projects, shifting balance of power in Washington"	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/06/politics/senate-flip-republicans/index.html	"CNN¡XRepublicans will win the US Senate majority, CNN projects, shifting the balance of power in Washington and putting the chamber in position to boost Donald Trump___s presidency.Withseveral racesstill to be declared,Republicans now have 52 seatsin the chamber and will assume control under ayet-to-be chosen Republican leaderwhen the new Congress convenes in January.The Senate takeover was the first big success of the night for Republicans, and the destiny of the House of Representatives, where the GOP is trying to defend its narrow majority, remains up in the air.The new GOP Senate will be in a position to back Trump___s agenda and to resume the ex-president___s significant reshaping of the judiciary with scores of more conservatives.The Republican march to control started early on election night when West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice was projected to pick up the Senate seat vacated by retiring Democrat-turned-independent Sen. Joe Manchin. Democrats had stopped contesting the seat after Manchin announced he wouldn___t seek reelection.In Ohio, Democratic Sen. Sherrod Brown, who has served in the chamber for three terms, willlose his reelection bid, CNN projects, in a state that has gone from a perennial political bellwether during his tenure to a deep red stronghold. The new Republican senator will be businessman Bernie Moreno, a vehement Trump supporter.And early Wednesday morning,CNN projectedthat in Montana, Republican businessman Tim Sheehy, a retired Navy SEAL, defeated three-term Democratic Sen. Jon Tester.Cruz and Scott cruise to reelectionThe few Democratic opportunities to mitigate their losses dwindled quickly throughout the night.In Florida,GOP Sen. Rick Scotteasily dispatched a challenge from Democratic former Rep. Debbie Mucarsel-Powell, who had built her campaign partly on a backlash to the overturning of the federal right to an abortion and Florida___s six-week abortion ban. Democrats had hoped that an abortion measure on the state___s ballot could boost Democratic turnout, but that measure failed Tuesday night.The party___s best chance to pick up a seat had been in Texas, where national party groups made late multimillion-dollar investments into trying to unseatGOP Sen. Ted Cruz. But the two-term senator will defeat Democratic Rep. Colin Allred, CNN projects, in yet another disappointment for Democrats as they chase the mirage of making inroads in the longtime Republican state.And in Nebraska, CNN projects that RepublicanSen. Deb Fischerwill defeat a stronger-than-expected challenge from independent Dan Osborn, who, along with his allies, outspent Republican forces in the state. Her loss wouldn___t necessarily have flipped the seat to the Democrats, since Osborn hadn___t said which party he___d caucus with in Washington. But with Democrats trying to stave off a GOP majority, an Osborn win would have deprived Republicans of a seat.Outstanding racesDemocrats had always faced a prohibitive path this year in defending their narrow control of the Senate, given the incumbents facing reelection are either in states Trump had carried twice before or narrowly lost in 2020.There are several key outstanding competitive races that have not been called.Wisconsin Democratic Sen. Tammy Baldwin, who is running for a third term, is in a tight race with Republican Eric Hovde, in a state also critical to the presidential race.In another blue wall state critical to Democrats___ success up and down the ballot, two national security specialists are facing off in Michigan. Democratic Rep. Elissa Slotkin is seeking to hold the seat being vacated by retiring Sen. Debbie Stabenow. She is facing Republican former Rep. Mike Rogers, the one-time chairman of the House Intelligence Committee who left Congress in 2015.In Pennsylvania, Democratic Sen. Bob Casey is trying to hold off a challenge from Republican Dave McCormick, who lost out on Trump___s backing during the 2022 Senate primary but secured it, and the GOP nomination, this year.The final numbers in the Senate will also have to await the result from Nevada, where first-term Democratic Sen. Jacky Rosen is up against Republican Sam Brown, an Army veteran who also lost a primary two years ago for the state___s other Senate seat. And in Arizona, where Democratic-turned-independent Sen. Kyrsten Sinema is retiring, Democratic Rep. Ruben Gallego is facing Trump acolyte Kari Lake, the 2022 gubernatorial nominee who still refuses to acknowledge her defeat in that race.There was not much to cheer for Democrats on the Senate map on Tuesday, but Democrat Angela Alsobrooks was projected to beat Maryland___s Republican formerGov. Larry Hogan, who was popular in the solidly blue state. Hogan was often critical of Trump, a stand that was challenging for him with deeply conservative Republicans in Maryland___s western districts and areas close to the eastern shore. Alsobrooks will become just the fourth Black woman elected to the Senate after Democrat Lisa Blunt Rochester, the third, was projected to win Delaware___s open Senate seat earlier in the night.This story has been updated with additional developments."	5130	
cnn	"Republicans will retain House majority, CNN projects, completing GOP¡¦s dominance of Washington"	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/13/politics/house-control-republicans-trifecta/index.html	"CNN¡XRepublicans have secured their monopoly on power inDonald Trump___s new Washington, retainingtheir majorityin the House of Representatives, CNN projected Wednesday, ushering in a dramatic new era of right-wing populist rule.The GOP___s control of both chambers of Congress ___ won after Republicans were projected to hold two House seats in California and Arizona ___ means that the president-elect will have a path to enact an agenda that could profoundly change America, including sweeping tax cuts, hardline immigration enforcement and a transformation of domestic and foreign policy.Republican dominance of Capitol Hill is just one aspect of Trump___s formidable new power base. A president-elect who already believed that he had all-but-limitless power will be emboldened by last summer___s Supreme Court ruling offering substantial immunity to the commander in chief for official acts taken in office.Trump may also have the chance in the next four years to replace older members of the court, potentially extending until the middle of the century the conservative majority he built in his first term.And as Trump unveils his team of Cabinet members and top West Wing staff, made up largely of ultra loyalists, it___s already clear that the 47th president will face few of the restraints that experienced career officials tried to impose on some of his most outlandish schemes when he was the 45th president.Trump___s team is promising an aggressive first 100-day agenda to enact as much of his ___Make America Great Again___ plan early next year after tapping into the public___s concern about high prices and undocumented migrants to help the GOP win the White House, the Senate and now the House.Republicans flipped the Senate by defeating Democrats defending red states and, with one outstanding race yet to be projected, they control 52 seats. While the Senate filibuster means that 60 votes are needed to pass most major legislation, party leaders will be able to use the same budgetary devices that helped President Joe Biden pass some big-ticket items.The GOP___s victory in the House represents a triumph for Speaker Mike Johnson, who struggled to control his restive conference over the last year. The House GOP often plunged into chaos and infighting ___ some of which was exacerbated by Trump___s interventions and the behavior of some of his most outspoken supporters. The narrow majority meant that any one member could decide to stage a revolt or to break with leadership for personal political gain.The question now will be how large next year___s House majority becomes and whether the GOP can widen the margin of a handful of seats that has made managing the conference so complex for Johnson. The fact that Trump will be in the White House with the GOP in full control could make unity easier next year. However, Trump is alreadypoaching from the incoming majorityfor his Cabinet picks, and even with those members hailing from safe Republican seats, their likely vacancies could last long enough to cause headaches for Johnson.Democrats had held out fading hopes in the days after the election that they could flip the House and create a sole bastion against Trump___s rule ___ a feat that looked like a possibility for much of the year given the chamber___s unproductive record and Johnson___s struggle to assert control. Democrats were targeting Republicans sitting in districts that Biden had won four years ago ___ many of which were in New York and California ___ but with Trump___s resounding victory this year, some of those seats became harder to pick off.Democrats are now left with the momentous task of regrouping ahead of the midterm elections in 2026 ___ without a single platform of power in Washington.Republicans had seized back the House in the 2022 midterm elections to put a brake on Biden___s term, largely through winning a flurry of those competitive seats in New York and California. Democrats managed to flip several New York seats this year, but Trump___s relative strength for a Republican presidential candidate in the state of his birth helped limit Democratic gains. Democrats also failed to knock off some other key targets, like GOP Rep. Don Bacon, whose Omaha-area district in Nebraska gave Vice President Kamala Harris an electoral vote. And the GOP captured some of its top targets in Pennsylvania and Michigan.That left the destiny of the House playing out in counts stretching well past Election Day in California, Oregon, Arizona, Iowa and Alaska, among other places.Democrats held on to some of their most competitive seats, however, like that of vulnerable Washington state Rep. Marie Gluesenkamp Perez, and were hopeful about others in Ohio and Maine in strong Trump territory.Johnson, who rose from obscurity on the backbenches to the speakership after a party meltdown following the ouster of previous House Speaker Kevin McCarthy in 2023, anchored his strategy to keep the chamber ___ and, if possible, enlarge his majority ___ on a tight alliance with Trump. The Louisiana Republican traveled to the president-elect___s Mar-a-Lago resort to celebrate on election night and his office has been coordinating closely with the transition team.And on Wednesday, before Trump___s arrival at a closed-door meeting with House Republicans, Johnson heralded the president-elect as ___the comeback king,___ according to a source in the room.Trump backed his bid to remain speaker, and the Louisiana Republican was later nominated unanimously by voice vote, two sources in the room told CNN. He___ll face a House floor vote on January 3.Despite some conservatives pressing Johnson ___ on everything from not sending more money to Ukraine to why the GOP didn___t win more seats ___ the party largely projected unity behind Trump and his backing of Johnson.___If Donald Trump says jump three feet high and scratch your head, we all jump three feet high and scratch our heads,___ GOP Rep. Troy Nehls of Texas told CNN. ___That___s it.___The speaker does face one looming crisis ___ a need to raise the government___s borrowing limit, perhaps by early summer, although there may be limited appetite from fiscal hawks in the party to provoke a showdown that could anger Trump.This story has been updated with additional developments.CNN___sAnnie Grayer, Haley Talbot and Aileen Graef contributed to this report."	6368	
cnn	"Harris concedes the election, but not ¡¥the fight that fueled this campaign¡¦"	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/06/politics/harris-concedes-election/index.html	"WashingtonCNN¡XVice President Kamala Harris offered an uplifting, positive charge to her supporters as she conceded the 2024 presidential election, acknowledging the stinging loss while committing to a peaceful transfer of power and vowing to ___fight___ in a much different way than a defeated presidential candidate promised four years ago.___Earlier today, I spoke with President-elect (Donald) Trump and congratulated him on his victory. I also told him that we will help him and his team with their transition and that we will engage in a peaceful transfer of power,___ she said in remarks at Howard University, her alma mater, in Washington, DC.In making the remarks, Harris did something her opponent refused to do in the aftermath of the 2020 election: Accept its results.___A fundamental principle of American democracy is that when we lose an election, we accept the results. ___ At the same time, in our nation, we owe loyalty not to a president or a party, but to the Constitution of the United States, and loyalty to our conscience and to our God. My allegiance to all three is why I am here to say: While I concede this election, I do not concede the fight that fueled this campaign,___ she said.One hundred and eight days after her campaign began, the self-described ___joyful warrior___ spoke about her loss in determined terms as she sought to reassure the American people.___I know folks are feeling and experiencing a range of emotions right now. I get it. But we must accept the results of this election,___ she said.Closing a chapter in the history books after a tense campaign, the vice president offered a call to supporters to ___roll up our sleeves___ in response to the election results.Supporters of Vice President Kamala Harris react following Harris' remarks, conceding 2024 U.S. presidential election to President-elect Donald Trump, at Howard University in Washington, DC, on November 6.Hannah McKay/Reuters___Do not despair. This is not a time to throw up our hands. This is a time to roll up our sleeves. This is a time to organize, to mobilize, and to stay engaged for the sake of freedom and justice and the future that we all know we can build together,___ she said in her 12-minute remarks.She vowed to wage that fight ___in the voting booth, in the courts, and in the public square,___ as well as in ___quieter ways: By treating one another with kindness and respect ___ by always using our strength to lift people up.___She also sent messages to her more youthful supporters.___To the young people who are watching, it is okay to feel sad and disappointed, but please know it___s going to be OK. On the campaign, I would often say, ___When we fight, we win.___ But here___s the thing, here___s the thing, sometimes the fight takes a while. That doesn___t mean we won___t win. That doesn___t mean we won___t win,___ she said.___The important thing is don___t ever give up. Don___t ever give up. Don___t ever stop trying to make the world a better place,___ she continued. ___You have the capacity to do extraordinary good in the world.___With the glass ceiling still intact, Harris did not directly address the nation___s failure to reach the historic, barrier-breaking outcome of a female president for the second time, something she largely avoiding highlighting on the campaign trail, rather letting surrogates do the talking for her.But she offered a nod to the moment: ___Don___t you ever listen when anyone tells you something is impossible because it has never been done before.___The speech marked a conclusion to a historic and tumultuous election season that included President Joe Biden___s decision to step aside following a catastrophic debate performance. His running mate quickly consolidated the party___s support, ascending to the top of the Democratic ticket.Harris wore a dark suit late Wednesday afternoon and walked out to Beyonc¡Ôý___s up-tempo anthem, ___Freedom,___ as she has throughout her time on the campaign trail, pausing for several moments as the crowd applauded her.Her running mate, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz, could be seen crying, as well as multiple attendees standing in the front row before her.Vice President Kamala Harris and second gentleman Doug Emhoff at Howard University in Washington, DC, on Wednesday, November 6, 2024.Austin Steele/CNNHarris had gathered with close family and aides at the Naval Observatory on Tuesday evening and did not appear at her campaign___s watch party at Howard University as thousands of her supporters gathered at her alma mater to watch the results come in.She officially conceded the race earlier Wednesday afternoon, offering her congratulations to Trump in a call that lasted only a few minutes, a person familiar said.Harris, a senior aide said, ___discussed the importance of a peaceful transfer of power and being a president for all Americans.___In a twist of irony, Harris___ day job will soon require her to officially certify her own loss.The vice president, as president of the Senate, ___presides over the count and announces the results of the Electoral College vote___ on January 6, 2025,according tothe National Archives."	5147	
cnn	Trump¡¦s master plan for a radical reformation of the US government	https://www.cnn.com/2024/11/07/politics/donald-trump-government-what-matters/index.html	"A version of this story appeared in CNN¡¦s What Matters newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for freehere._CNN¡XPresident-elect Donald Trump has promised to completely remake the US government and wield new power as president.The ambitious promises, if enacted, would transform society. Some of hismost-repeated promises on the campaign trailinclude:Mass deportation of 11 millionundocumented immigrantsClosing the southern border and ending birthright citizenshipUnprecedentedtariffs on foreign goodsfrom all countries, but especially ChinaExpansivetax cutsto benefit corporations, tipped workers, seniors on Social Security, property owners in the Northeast and many othersTrillions in cuts in government spending withhelp from Elon MuskReforming the country¡¦s health and food systems withhelp from vaccine skeptic Robert F. Kennedy Jr.Reversing regulations aimed at addressingclimate changeBuilding a new missile defense shield withhelp from former NFL player Herschel WalkerAnd so much moreNow Americans will find out what was hyperbole and what was real ¡V what is achievable and what he will be able to push through by himself, with help from Congress and without interference by the courts.His pledge to endRussia¡¦s war on Ukraine¡§in 24 hours,¡¨ for example, seems overwrought, to say the least.His pledge for a mass deportation effort, on the other hand, is very serious. It seems to be backed up by some clear planning but there¡¦s a lack of public details.Is there a master plan?During the campaign, Trump tried to distance himself from Project 2025, the controversial and detailed blueprint for a newly reimagined federal government published by conservatives at the Heritage Foundation in anticipation of a second Trump term.While Trump may not want to associate with that plan, it was formulated by his allies ¡Vat least 140 people associated with Project 2025worked in Trump¡¦s administration, according to a review by CNN¡¦s Steve Contorno. Certainly there is some overlap between much of what the 900-page Project 2025 proposes and what Trump has said he will do in a series of very simple ¡§Agenda47¡¨ videos on his website laying out his plans for a second term.In one Agenda47 video, for instance, Trump promises tohave an executive orderprepared to end birthright citizenship for the children of undocumented immigrants. The14th Amendmentguarantees birthright citizenship, so expect court fights if this happens.One of the policy maestros of Protect 2025, Russell Vought ¡V who served as the director of the Office of Management and Budget during Trump¡¦s first term ¡V wascaptured on hidden camera by undercover journalistsover the summer talking about an aggressive agenda he was writing to get Trump¡¦s new administration off to an active start in its first 180 days.On mass deportationsTrump¡¦s most aggressive promise is the rounding up and deportation of millions of undocumented immigrants. Expect Trump to come into office with a series of executive orders already written to reinstate border policies unwound by the Biden administration.Such is the yo-yoing of US immigration policy given that Congress has been unable to pass meaningful reform for decades. What¡¦s not clear is how exactly Trump will go about closing the US border and whether it will include the US military, the National Guard or local law enforcement agencies.Trump¡¦s adviser Stephen Miller said on Fox News to expect deportations to begin the moment Trump is again president on January 20, 2025.CNNRelated REPORTINGAmerica¡¦s red shift: See the counties where Trump boosted his share of the vote¡§They begin on Inauguration Day, as soon as he takes the oath of office,¡¨ he said.But it¡¦s still not clear exactly how deportations will work. Rep. Carlos Gimenez, a Florida Republican, told CNN¡¦s Pamela Brown on Thursday that he expects every undocumented immigrant will continue to get a hearing before he or she is deported, something that will require the hiring of a large number of additional government workers if deportations are amplified to a massive scale. The current process is lengthy.¡§I agree; it¡¦s going to be a very, very big task,¡¨ Gimenez said. ¡§And my hope is, and I expect, that we¡¦ll just simply follow the law.¡¨CNN¡¦s Priscilla Alvarez reported there have already been discussions among Trump allies and some in the private sector to detain and deport migrants at a large scale ¡V though any operation would come with a big price tag.She noted that Tom Homan, who was acting director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement during Trump¡¦s first term, has said a deportation effort would start with anyone accused of a crime. It¡¦s not clear what would happen to so-called Dreamers, people brought to the US as children who have lived most of their lives here. Some of them are protected by an Obama-era program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, that Trump tried unsuccessfully to end during his first term.Video Ad FeedbackEx-ICE official warns about Trump's mass deportation plan02:05- Source:CNNPlans to ¡¥aggressively¡¦ fire government workers and move agencies out of DCAt the end of his first term, Trump planned to reclassify a large portion of the federal civilian workforce to make it easier to fire federal workers. Commonly referred to as ¡§Schedule F,¡¨ Trump¡¦s plan was to undo long-standing protections for nonpartisan civil servants.The Biden administration has put some roadblocks in place to ward against such reclassification, but Trump promises in an Agenda47 video to immediately begin working to reinstate it so that he can ¡§remove rogue bureaucrats.¡¨ He says he will also ¡§clean out all of the corrupt actors¡¨ in the national security and intelligence apparatus and ¡§immediately¡¨ move federal agencies out of the nation¡¦s capital.John McEntee, who was director of the White House Presidential Personnel Office during Trump¡¦s first administration, worked on Project 2025, building a list of Trump loyalists suitable for administration roles. He remains close to Trump, according toCNN¡¦s report on Trump¡¦s transition.McEnteesaid recentlyhe wasn¡¦t involved with the policy recommendations in Project 2025, even though he said, ¡§I agree with probably most of it.¡¨ Instead, he¡¦s interested in ¡§staffing the president with good people ÿ I think he deserves that.¡¨What about Trump¡¦s Cabinet?Trump likes to associate himself and his programs with boldface names. Musk will have a role in government efficiency but probably not a Cabinet position. Kennedy says he wants to give individuals more agency to reject vaccines for their children, but perhaps that does not mean he will have a Cabinet position. Does Trump¡¦s promise at a rally in Georgia to put Walker in charge of a missile defense program mean an official government job for the failed Senate candidate?Robert F. Kennedy Jr., former President Donald Trump and Elon MuskGetty ImagesRelated articleTrump¡¦s plan to radically remake government with RFK Jr. and Elon Musk is coming into viewThere are 26 people in President Joe Biden¡¦s Cabinet. Some, like CIA director or US ambassador to the United Nations, can be added or subtracted depending on the administration. Only two of the 26 potential positions in a Trump Cabinet are in place. Look for Trump to continue naming top officials in the coming days.In addition to Vice President-elect JD Vance, Trump¡¦s first key personnel news came Thursday night when he announcedSusie Wiles, his campaign manager, would become his chief of staff. She¡¦ll be the first woman to hold the position.Trump went through four such top aides during his previous administration. The longest-serving of those, retired Marine Gen.John Kelly, had warned against Trump¡¦s election.Trump can simply hire a chief of staff, but most Cabinet positions, like secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security, will require Senate confirmation. Trump will have aRepublican majority in the Senate, which should ease the confirmation of key positions, but each of the ultimate Cabinet appointees will have a confirmation hearing before they get a vote.Frustrated by the difficulty of getting Cabinet officials confirmed during his first administration, Trump frequently appointed people as ¡§acting¡¨ secretaries, although those appointments can only be made on a temporary basis.Trump¡¦s oldest son, Donald Jr., said on Fox News that Trump will prize loyalty and look for ¡§people who don¡¦t think that they know better than the duly elected president of the United States.¡¨Taking power away from CongressTrump won¡¦t have the 60 votes he¡¦ll need to shoot sweeping legislation quickly through Congress without bipartisan support in the Senate. It¡¦s not yet clear if Republicans will hold control of the House, but any majority will be slim.One of his big plans to challenge current governing norms that¡¦s gotten less attention is his pledge to seize some power over government spending from Congress. In one Agenda47 video, Trump says he would try to reassert the principle of ¡§impoundment,¡¨ by which a president can reject spending instructions from Congress and use taxpayer money in other ways.Congress reined in presidents with a law after the Nixon administration, but Trump says he will challenge it and take more power for the president."	9234	